1[B] It is a big for people in this small town to learn that the only movie theater is going to shut down next month. (A)cable (B)shock (C)tube (D)zone
  ⇒ 句意：得知鎮上唯一的電影院下個月要關門，對居民來說是很大的「震驚」。a big shock 很大的衝擊。cable 電纜；tube 管子；zone 區域。
2[C] The animal rights group is going to a party to raise money for street cats. (A)break (B)fight (C)hold (D)spell
  ⇒ 句意：動物權團體要「舉辦」派對為流浪貓募款。hold a party 舉辦派對。break 打破；fight 打鬥；spell 拼字。
3[A] I have finished writing the novel, and I’m going to complete the last chapter tonight. (A)almost (B)already (C)always (D)altogether
  ⇒ 句意：小說我「幾乎」寫完了，今晚要完成最後一章。almost 幾乎，呼應還差最後一章。already 已經（與今晚才完成矛盾）；always 總是；altogether 總共。
4[D] In some countries, looking at someone in the eye for too long is considered , so you should avoid doing it. (A)basic (B)classical (C)legal (D)rude
  ⇒ 句意：在某些國家，盯著別人眼睛太久被認為「無禮」，所以應避免。rude 無禮的。basic 基本的；classical 古典的；legal 合法的。
5[B] If you keep blowing air into the balloon, it will with a loud bang. (A)aim (B)burst (C)explore (D)shine
  ⇒ 句意：一直往氣球吹氣，它會砰一聲「爆開」。burst 爆裂。aim 瞄準；explore 探索；shine 發光。
6[D] The boss agreed to increase workers’ , so they can make more money to improve their life. (A)permits (B)risks (C)scales (D)wages
  ⇒ 句意：老闆同意提高員工「工資」，讓他們賺更多錢改善生活。wage 工資。permit 許可證；risk 風險；scale 規模、秤。
7[D] Since my teeth are very to sweets, I don’t eat candies and cookies. (A)attractive (B)effective (C)positive (D)sensitive
  ⇒ 句意：我的牙齒對甜食很「敏感」，所以不吃糖果餅乾。be sensitive to 對……敏感。attractive 有吸引力的；effective 有效的；positive 正面的。
8[C] Amy’s proposal to get funding from the school did not meet any , so she got all the money she needed for her project. (A)appreciation (B)gratitude (C)resistance (D)sympathy
  ⇒ 句意：Amy 向學校申請經費的提案沒有遇到任何「阻力」，所以拿到所需的全部經費。meet resistance 遇到反對。appreciation 欣賞；gratitude 感激；sympathy 同情。
9[A] William’s mother was seriously hurt in the car accident; she will have to stay in the hospital for a while. (A)badly (B)cheaply (C)hardly (D)shortly
  ⇒ 畫線字 seriously 意為「嚴重地」，與 badly 同義。句意：William 的母親在車禍中嚴重受傷，必須住院一陣子。cheaply 便宜地；hardly 幾乎不；shortly 不久。
10[A] I’m sorry that I don’t have any spare money to lend you. I spent all my money buying a new cellphone for my mom. (A)extra (B)hot (C)quick (D)soft 英文 共同科目 Ⅱ. 對話題：第11 至20 題，請依對話內容選出一個最適合的答案，使其成為有意義 的對話。
  ⇒ 畫線字 spare 意為「多餘的、閒置的」，與 extra 同義。句意：抱歉我沒有多餘的錢借你，錢都拿去幫媽媽買新手機了。hot 熱的；quick 快的；soft 軟的。
11[D] Anita: There’s a famous Chinese restaurant across the road. They serve the best Peking duck. Sergio: Yes, I used to go there every week before I moved away from here. Anita: I really want to try their Peking duck. Sergio: Once in a long while. (A)Is it far away from here? (B)Does it really taste good? (C)Have you ever been there? (D)Do you still go there often?
  ⇒ Sergio 回答「偶爾才去一次」(Once in a long while)，可知 Anita 問的是「你現在還常去嗎？」。他已說過以前每週去，(C) 已有答案。
12[A] Betty: Hello. I’m calling about your ad for the five-room rental apartment. Is it still available? Manager: Yes, it is. Betty: Yes. I’d like to. Can you tell me the address? (A)Would you like to see it? (B)Where did you see the ad? (C)When do you want to see it? (D)Will your friend come with you?
  ⇒ Betty 回答「好，我想看，可以告訴我地址嗎？」，可知經理問的是「您想來看看嗎？」。(C) 問時間，應回答時間。
13[C] Alex: I’m interested in buying an electric car. Sales: Good choice. They cause less pollution, and there are lots of places in the city where you can charge your car. Alex: What if I want to leave the city? How far can I go before I need to charge the car? Sales: (A)It has gone too far. (B)You have no choice. (C)It has a range of 200 kilometers. (D)As far as I know, there’s no charge.
  ⇒ Alex 問「充電前能開多遠？」，業務回答「續航距離 200 公里」(a range of 200 kilometers)。(D) charge 在此是「費用」，答非所問。
14[B] Jane: Guess what I saw during my trip to Paris last month? Roy: I bet you saw the Eiffel Tower ( 艾菲爾鐵塔 ) , right? Jane: Of course I saw that. And I also saw the Mona Lisa. Roy: You mean da Vinci’s ( 達文西 ) Mona Lisa? Jane: I saw it at the Louvre ( 羅浮宮 ) . (A)No way! (B)That’s the one. (C)You’re lucky! (D)Don’t mention it.
  ⇒ Roy 確認「你是說達文西的蒙娜麗莎嗎？」，Jane 回答「就是那幅，我在羅浮宮看到的」(That's the one)。
15[C] David: Do you like watching judo ( 柔道 ) competitions? Annie: No, not at all. But, I’m a big fan of Drangadrang ( 楊勇緯 ) . David: Really? You know him? Annie: He’s talented, strong and of course, very cute. He’s even won an Olympic medal! David: Wow! You really know him, huh? (A)How did you meet him? (B)What does he really like? (C)What do you like about him? (D)How did he know about judo? 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ Annie 回答他有才華、強壯又可愛，說的是喜歡他的理由，所以 David 問「妳喜歡他哪一點？」。(A) Annie 並沒有見過他。
16[B] Jimmy: I need to find a part-time job, Ms. King. Ms. King: May I know the reason? Jimmy: I need to support myself through school. Ms. King: I see. Jimmy: I can type pretty fast. (A)How soon do you need the job? (B)What kind of skills do you have? (C)What kind of support do you need? (D)What do you know about the school?
  ⇒ Jimmy 回答「我打字很快」，說明自己的技能，所以 King 女士問「你有什麼技能？」。
17[D] Secretary: Hello, Dean’s office, may I help you? Jack: Good morning, Sir. I’m looking for Dr. Huang. Secretary: Jack: OK. Could you let him know that Jack, his student, would like to make an appointment with him? Secretary: Sure, let me check his schedule. (A)I’m sorry there’s no such person here. (B)I’m sorry you dialed the wrong number. (C)I’m afraid he doesn’t work here anymore. (D)I’m afraid he’s not in the office right now.
  ⇒ Jack 接著請秘書轉告黃博士他想預約，可知秘書說的是「恐怕他現在不在辦公室」。(A)(B)(C) 都表示找不到此人，就不會再請對方轉告。
18[B] Ms. Lin: Ms. Ting, Stella’s ballet show yesterday was terrific. She is great. Ms. Ting: Since she was seven. Ms. Lin: I can’t believe it. She must be a genius. (A)How often did she practice ballet? (B)How long has she been learning ballet? (C)How old do people start learning ballet? (D)How much will you pay for a ballet show?
  ⇒ Ting 女士回答「從七歲開始」，說的是學習期間，所以 Lin 女士問「她學芭蕾多久了？」(How long has she been learning ballet?)。
19[A] Angel: Have you ever met new friends online? Teddy: Yes, I have. We still keep in touch now. Angel: How did you meet them? Teddy: (A)I joined an online group. (B)We never talked on the Net. (C)They met new friends on the street. (D)He continued to play online games.
  ⇒ Angel 問「你怎麼認識他們的？」，Teddy 回答「我加入了一個網路社群」。(B)(C)(D) 都答非所問。
20[B] Nancy: Let’s go out and play badminton. Do you know where the badminton gears and equipment are? Danny: Aren’t they in the closet next to you? Nancy: Danny: Why not go check the garage? (A)Yes, here they are. (B)I don’t see them here. (C)They sound closer to you. (D)No, we threw them away. 英文 共同科目 Ⅲ. 綜合測驗：以下兩篇短文，共有10 個空格，為第21 至30 題，每題有四個 選項，請依各篇短文文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。
  ⇒ Danny 建議「何不去車庫看看？」，可知 Nancy 在衣櫥沒找到：「我這裡沒看到」。(A) 若找到就不必去車庫；(D) 丟掉了就不必再找。
【題組文章】▲ 下篇短文共有5 個空格，為第21 － 25 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 Taiwan’s east coast offers marvelous views of ocean wildlife. The chances of seeing a whale are very high in summer. It’s rather easy to spot whales, 21 whales swim past Taiwan’s east coast every year between April and October. Today, whale watching 22 a popular activity. The best time for whale watching is from June to August 23 the sea is calm. Whale watching makes up a major part of the tourism industry in Yilan, Taitung and Hualien counties. Whale watching tours have been 24 since 1997, and boat trips have been increasing. Tour operators are expected to follow regulations governing the activity. For example, to get a closer look at the whales, boats should 25 the animals from behind. A list of responsible whale watching principles is included in an official guide to reduce the impact of tourism on the behavior of the world’s biggest animals.
21[A]  (A)for (B)nor (C)so (D)yet
  ⇒ 前句說很容易看到鯨魚，後句說明原因：「因為」每年 4 到 10 月都有鯨魚游經東海岸。for 因為（對等連接詞）。nor 也不；so 所以；yet 然而。
22[C]  (A)became (B)become (C)has become (D)will become
  ⇒ Today 搭配現在完成式，表示賞鯨「已成為」熱門活動，主詞單數用 has become。
23[B]  (A)why (B)when (C)how (D)which
  ⇒ 關係副詞 when 修飾表時間的 June to August：「海面平靜的 6 到 8 月」。
24[A]  (A)around (B)against (C)off (D)over
  ⇒ Whale watching tours have been around since 1997：賞鯨活動自 1997 年起「就已存在」。be around 存在。
25[D]  (A)accept (B)admit (C)affect (D)approach
  ⇒ 為了近看鯨魚，船隻應從後方「接近」鯨魚，以免驚擾。approach 接近。accept 接受；admit 承認；affect 影響。
【題組文章】▲ 下篇短文共有5 個空格，為第26 － 30 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 People take different actions when seeing a stranger who needs help. In psychology, there are two theories about the way people act in that situation, 26 the bystander effect and the Good Samaritan effect. A bystander is a person who sees a problem but just stands and watches, and a Good Samaritan refers to the one who helps a stranger in trouble. The bystander doesn’t 27 to help, whereas the Good Samaritan jumps in to lend a hand. A bystander does not help because he or she does not want to look foolish by making a mistake when trying to help out. 28 , a Good Samaritan helps because he or she wants others to see how helpful he or she is. In addition, a Good Samaritan pays close attention 29 other Good Samaritans. His or her action is based on what others are doing. If he or she sees others helping, he or she is more likely to help 30 . So, when you see a stranger in need, will you be a bystander or a Good Samaritan?
26[A]  (A)called (B)calling (C)and called (D)while calling
  ⇒ two theories ... (which are) called the bystander effect and the Good Samaritan effect，用過去分詞 called 表被動，意為「稱為……」。
27[C]  (A)cross out (B)hand in (C)step in (D)throw out
  ⇒ 旁觀者不「介入」幫忙，好撒馬利亞人則主動出手。step in 介入。cross out 刪除；hand in 繳交；throw out 丟棄。
28[D]  (A)As a result (B)To sum up (C)In the first place (D)On the other hand
  ⇒ 前句說旁觀者不幫忙的原因，後句說好撒馬利亞人幫忙的原因，兩者對比，用 On the other hand「另一方面」。
29[D]  (A)at (B)in (C)of (D)to
  ⇒ pay attention to 注意。好撒馬利亞人會密切注意其他人是否在幫忙。
30[C]  (A)neither (B)otherwise (C)as well (D)so far 英文 共同科目 Ⅳ. 閱讀測驗：以下有四篇短文，共有12 個題目，為第 31 至42 題，請於閱讀短文後， 選出最適當的答案。
  ⇒ 看到別人在幫忙，他也比較可能跟著幫忙。as well 也，放句尾。neither 兩者都不；otherwise 否則；so far 到目前為止。
【題組文章】▲ 根據以下圖表，回答第31 － 32 題 The following graph shows how Mary, Sam, David and Linda spend their pocket money every month. Answer the questions based on the given information. 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Snacks Soft Drinks Transportation Entertainment (NTD) Monthly Expenses Mary Sam David Linda
31[D] How much does David spend on soft drinks every month? (A)About NT$800. (B)More than NT$500. (C)Exactly NT$400. (D)Less than NT$200.
  ⇒ 依長條圖，David 每月花在飲料（Soft Drinks）的錢約 150 元，少於 200 元。
32[B] Which of the following is true? (A)Mary spends the most money on transportation. (B)Sam spends more money on snacks than Linda. (C)Linda spends as much money as Mary on soft drinks. (D)David spends less money on entertainment than Sam. 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Snacks Soft Drinks Transportation Entertainment (NTD) Monthly Expenses Mary Sam David Linda 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ Sam 的零食花費約 1000 元，Linda 約 500 元，Sam 比 Linda 多。(A) Mary 花最多的是娛樂；(C) 飲料 Mary 約 250 元、Linda 約 300 元；(D) 娛樂 David 約 300 元，比 Sam 的約 150 元多。
【題組文章】▲ 根據以下圖表，回答第33 － 35 題 Read the label below and answer the questions that follow. Drug Facts Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms  sneezing  runny nose  watery, itchy eyes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have  glaucoma  breathing problems When using this product  you may get drowsy  avoid alcoholic drinks  be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a doctor before use. Directions Adults and children 12 years and over Take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours; not more than 12 tablets in 24 hours Children under 12 years Ask a doctor Other information Store in a cool, dry place
33[C] Which part should you check to find out how to take the medicine? (A)Uses (B)Warnings (C)Directions (D)Other information
  ⇒ 想知道怎麼服藥，要看用法說明 Directions（成人與 12 歲以上兒童每 4～6 小時 2 錠）。Uses 是用途；Warnings 是警語；Other information 是保存方式。
34[B] Which effect should you be aware of if you want to take the medicine? (A)You may feel cool and have dry skin. (B)You may feel sleepy and cannot think clearly. (C)You may have watery eyes and a runny nose. (D)You may have itchy eyes and cannot breathe well.
  ⇒ Warnings 寫明使用時「可能嗜睡」(you may get drowsy)，並應避免喝酒、小心開車，即可能感到想睡、無法清楚思考。(C)(D) 是這藥要緩解的症狀。
35[A] According to the label, which of the following is true? (A)A 13-year-old child can take ten tablets in a day. (B)Adults should take the medicine with alcoholic drinks. (C)A patient can take two tablets every six hours to treat glaucoma. (D)A 30-year-old pregnant woman should take the medicine without asking a doctor. 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ 12 歲以上每 4～6 小時 2 錠，24 小時內不超過 12 錠，13 歲兒童一天吃 10 錠符合規定。(B) 應避免酒精飲料；(C) 青光眼患者用藥前要先問醫師，此藥並非治療青光眼；(D) 孕婦應先問醫師。
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第36 － 37 題 The following notice is posted by a high school before the summer vacation. Answer the questions based on the given information. How to protect yourself from job scams A scam is a way of tricking people into giving money or personal details to criminals. In a job scam, criminals pose as employers to cheat you of your money or your personal information by offering you a job. Very often, they offer large sums of money for little skill, effort or experience. Here are the common job scams and tips to help you avoid them. Common job scams A type of job scams asks you to use your bank account to receive and pass on payments for others. They will pay you a fee for helping to transfer the money. Some scammers might ask you to deposit money into their account. Or, they will ask you for your bank details before they’ve even offered you the job. In another instance, the fake employer wants to set up an interview. But first, they ask you to provide your bank details, a scan of your identity card or other personal information. If a company is asking you to buy the products before you sell them, beware! Things to watch out for Unclear job description: Very little information about the job is provided and no skills or experience is required. Unbelievably high pay: The job requires very little effort for high returns. Requesting personal information: If you provide your bank account details, the scammer may use them to commit crimes. Remember: If a job offer seems too good to be true, it’s probably a scam. How can I protect myself? Do background check on the company and the person who claims to be hiring you. If a job offer doesn’t feel right, feel free to contact the school staff for help.
36[A] Which is NOT mentioned as how job scams work? (A)Applicants have to give their cellphones to the employer. (B)Applicants are asked to send in money before they get hired. (C)Applicants have to pay for products before they sell the items. (D)Applicants may be paid to use their bank accounts for money transfers.
  ⇒ 本題選「沒有」提到的詐騙手法。公告提到：用你的帳戶代轉款項並付手續費、錄取前要你先匯錢或提供帳戶資料、要你先買產品再銷售。沒有提到要求交出手機。
37[C] Which of the following is true? (A)Scammers are people who help to look for criminals. (B)The notice gives a list of common job scam websites. (C)Job applicants should find out more about the employers. (D)The school staff helps employers feel good about job ads. 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ 公告建議求職者對公司與招募者做背景調查，即應進一步了解雇主。(A) 詐騙者是假冒雇主的罪犯；(B) 公告沒有列出詐騙網站；(D) 學校職員是協助學生判斷可疑工作。
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第38 － 42 題 Technology is continuously changing the sports industry for the better. Electronic devices known as sensors can detect changes and provide instant information about the health and movements of the athlete. Technology has changed the way some athletes train by live tracking the athlete’s performances, perfecting the athlete’s movements, and preventing sports injuries. Using sensors worn by the athlete, sports trainers can measure and track performance in real time. Nearly everything about the athlete can be measured, from breathing and heart rate, to sweat and temperature. The real-time information can help the trainer determine what aspects each athlete needs to focus on more. During practice, the trainer can read the data and decide when it’s time to rest, stretch or train harder. In the past, however, the practice session would be recorded, and the athlete’s performance would be judged later after the practice. Technological tools also provide a lot of information about the athlete’s movements. These tools can measure the exact position, distance, and speed of the athlete. The sensors on a swimmer’s body, for example, provide data on movements like dive angle and leg movement. Observing these movements allows the trainer to help athletes perfect their performance. The most important effect of technology on sports training is that injuries have been sharply reduced. Training software can assist trainers to keep watch on all aspects of training, including diet, energy, and sleep. This helps prevent fatigue and self-created injuries during practice. Technology allows athletes to not only get the most out of their training but also stay injury free. Sports technology will undoubtedly increase the athlete’s potential.
38[B] What is the passage mainly about? (A)Tracking the performance of trainers. (B)Training athletes with technological tools. (C)Perfecting the body movements of trainers. (D)Preventing the damage of technological tools.
  ⇒ 文章說明感測器等科技工具如何即時追蹤表現、精進動作、預防運動傷害，主旨是以科技工具訓練運動員。(A)(C) 對象應是運動員而非教練。
39[D] Which is closest in meaning to the phrase “live tracking” in paragraph 1? (A)Checking an activity after it is over (B)Discussing an activity that may happen (C)Following an activity before it happens (D)Observing an activity when it is taking place
  ⇒ live tracking 指「即時追蹤」，第二段說教練能即時（in real time）測量與追蹤表現，即在活動進行時觀察。(A) 是過去事後評估的做法。
40[D] According to the passage, how has technology changed sports training? (A)The athlete and the trainer can have a healthy diet. (B)The athlete and the trainer can stop during practice. (C)The trainer can understand the athlete’s performance only after practice. (D)The trainer can find out at once how the athlete performs during practice.
  ⇒ 文中說教練能在訓練中讀取即時數據，立刻知道運動員表現並決定休息或加強。過去則要等練習後看錄影才評估，(C) 是過去的做法。
41[A] In the writer’s opinion, what is the best benefit of using technology in sports training? (A)Avoiding sports injuries. (B)Watching a performance. (C)Recording the sports practice. (D)Making the movements perfect.
  ⇒ 作者說科技對運動訓練最重要的影響是「傷害大幅減少」(The most important effect ... injuries have been sharply reduced)。
42[D] Which of the following statements is true? (A)An athlete can detect the movements of sensor devices. (B)Technological tools measure only the athlete’s heart rate. (C)Trainers dive at a perfect angle when swimmers wear sensors. (D)Technological tools can show detailed movements of an athlete. 英文 共同科目 二、 非選擇題 ( 第Ⅰ題，每格2分，共4分；第 Ⅱ題6分；第 Ⅲ 題6分；共16分 ) Ⅰ. 填充 說明：
  ⇒ 文中說科技工具能測量運動員精確的位置、距離、速度，以及跳水角度、腿部動作等細節。(A) 是感測器偵測運動員；(B) 不只心跳；(C) 是游泳選手跳水，不是教練。