1[D] These clothes are still , so you need to hang them in the sun to remove the water. (A)bare (B)dry (C)thin (D)wet
  ⇒ 句意：衣服還是「濕的」，所以要晾在太陽下去除水分。wet 濕的。bare 赤裸的；dry 乾的（與後句矛盾）；thin 薄的。
2[B] Wang Guan-hong ( 王冠閎 ) , Taiwan’s “Butterfly King,” began his swimming journey in the third grade when he the school’s swimming team. (A)blocked (B)joined (C)pulled (D)rented
  ⇒ 句意：王冠閎三年級「加入」學校游泳隊，開始游泳之路。join 加入。block 阻擋；pull 拉；rent 租。
3[B] The teacher treats all her students , giving every student the same opportunity to succeed. (A)carelessly (B)equally (C)instantly (D)silently
  ⇒ 句意：老師「平等地」對待所有學生，給每個學生相同的成功機會。equally 平等地，與後句 the same opportunity 呼應。carelessly 粗心地；instantly 立即；silently 安靜地。
4[D] With a calm, beautiful beach just within walking distance, this hotel is a place to relax. (A)difficult (B)fearful (C)rocky (D)suitable
  ⇒ 句意：步行可達平靜美麗的海灘，這間飯店是「適合」放鬆的地方。suitable 適合的。difficult 困難的；fearful 可怕的；rocky 多岩石的。
5[A] In order to more customers, the bakery café offers a 20 % discount on each cup of coffee for three days. (A)attract (B)blame (C)excuse (D)prevent
  ⇒ 句意：為了「吸引」更多顧客，烘焙咖啡館連續三天咖啡打八折。attract 吸引。blame 責怪；excuse 原諒；prevent 防止。
6[A] Weather forecasts for one or two days ahead are quite , providing correct weather information most of the time. (A)accurate (B)doubtful (C)false (D)inferior
  ⇒ 句意：一兩天內的天氣預報相當「準確」，大多數時候都提供正確資訊。accurate 準確的，呼應 correct。doubtful 可疑的；false 錯誤的；inferior 較差的。
7[D] Amy was certain that she had a high fever after measuring her body . (A)existence (B)image (C)structure (D)temperature
  ⇒ 句意：Amy 量了「體溫」後，確定自己發高燒。body temperature 體溫。existence 存在；image 形象；structure 結構。
8[A] When the award presenter Shu Qi ( 舒淇 ) as the winner of the Best Director Award at the 30th Busan International Film Festival ( 釜山影展 ) , the audience stood up and clapped their hands. (A)announced (B)circulated (C)inspected (D)preserved
  ⇒ 句意：頒獎人舒淇「宣布」最佳導演得主時，觀眾起立鼓掌。announce 宣布。circulate 流傳；inspect 檢查；preserve 保存。
9[A] When buying a car, those who want to save money will pick a used one because it is a more affordable option. (A)choice (B)material (C)quantity (D)sample
  ⇒ 畫線字 option 意為「選擇、選項」，與 choice 同義。句意：想省錢的人會買二手車，因為那是較負擔得起的選擇。material 材料；quantity 數量；sample 樣品。
10[C] Tim was extremely moved by the eight-part polyphony ( 八部合音 ) of the Bunun people ( 布農 族 ) , and he dreamed of singing with them on stage one day. (A)angrily (B)bravely (C)deeply (D)openly 英文 共同科目 Ⅱ. 對話題：第11 至20 題，請依對話內容選出一個最適合的答案，使其成為有意義 的對話。
  ⇒ 畫線字 extremely 意為「極度地」，與 deeply（深深地）意義最接近。句意：Tim 被布農族八部合音深深感動。angrily 生氣地；bravely 勇敢地；openly 公開地。
11[B] Customer: Hi, do you sell phone chargers? Clerk: Yes, over there. Take a look, please. Customer: Great, I’ll take this one. How much is it? Clerk: That’ll be NT$ 350. . Customer: No, just the charger. Clerk: OK, got it. (A)Is that all? (B)Anything else? (C)Cash or credit card? (D)It works well, right?
  ⇒ 店員說完價錢後問「還需要別的嗎？」（Anything else?），顧客回答「不用，只要充電器」。(A) Is that all? 回答應是 Yes；(C) 問付款方式，不能答「只要充電器」；(D) 與回答無關。
12[B] Jane: Did you go to the BLACKPINK concert? Tom: Nope. I was busy preparing for a singing competition. Jane: Oh! And did you go to the TWICE concert? Tom: . Jane: Lucky you! You got the tickets! I wish I were there with you. (A)They’ll never come again. (B)I went with my classmates. (C)I’m not a fan of these two groups. (D)You sang very well with me last time.
  ⇒ Jane 回應「你真幸運！你買到票了！」，可知 Tom 說的是「我和同學一起去了」。(A)(C)(D) 都無法引出「你買到票了」的回應。
13[C] Liz: I’m going to the supermarket to pick up two boxes of mandarin oranges. My mother ordered them for Chinese New Year. Jay: . Liz: They are a symbol of good fortune. We eat them to bring good luck. (A)Since when? (B)Which supermarket? (C)Why mandarin oranges? (D)How many mandarin oranges?
  ⇒ Liz 回答「橘子象徵好運」，說明的是原因，所以 Jay 問的是「為什麼是橘子？」(Why mandarin oranges?)。
14[D] Brian: I heard you’re learning Spanish. Is it hard? Lily: Yes, it is, but I like it. Brian: You’re already 30. . Lily: No, not at all. Age is not a big deal. (A)How would you deal with it anyway? (B)Isn’t Spanish your favorite language? (C)When did you start learning Spanish? (D)Isn’t it too late to learn a new language?
  ⇒ Brian 提到「你已經 30 歲了」，Lily 回答「年齡不是問題」，可知 Brian 問「學新語言不會太晚嗎？」。
15[A] Peter: Gosh. I left my bottled water on my bike. Rose: For the whole afternoon? Then don’t drink it. It’s hot outside. The sun may have heated it up. Peter: . Rose: Chemicals from plastics may have got into the water. It’s not good for your health. Peter: I didn’t know that! (A)What’s wrong with that? (B)Where did I leave my bike? (C)When’s the sun going down? (D)Why did you bring that with you? 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ Rose 接著解釋塑膠中的化學物質可能溶入水中，對健康不好，可知 Peter 問的是「那有什麼問題？」(What's wrong with that?)。
16[C] Mrs. Wu: I’m going shopping. Would you mind picking up Jimmy at the sports center? Mr. Wu: I’d like to, but I’ll have an online meeting soon. Mrs. Wu: We’re out of food for dinner. There’s nothing left in the fridge. Mr. Wu: . Mrs. Wu: Great! You go book the restaurant now and I’ll get Jimmy. (A)Are you interested in sports? (B)Can I go shopping right now? (C)Then we can eat out tonight. (D)Let’s do online meeting together.
  ⇒ 冰箱沒有食物，Mr. Wu 又要開會，便提議「那今晚出去吃吧」，Mrs. Wu 才說「你去訂餐廳，我去接 Jimmy」。
17[A] Ming: Did you know the skills contest in Taipei last year? A-Mei: The Asian Skills Competition at Nangang Exhibition Center? Ming: Yes. I was there. It was very impressive. The Taiwan team did a good job! A-Mei: . Ming: Twenty-two in total. We won the team title; we were the best in Asia! (A)Did we get any gold medals? (B)Did you go there by the Blue 22 bus? (C)Did you know anything about Car Painting? (D)Did we also enter the competition two years ago?
  ⇒ Ming 回答「總共 22 面，我們贏得團體冠軍」，可知 A-Mei 問的是「我們有得到金牌嗎？」。
18[B] Ann: Hey, I’m writing my resume. What should I put first? Ben: You can list your education first. Ann: What’s next? . Ben: Yes. My advice is that you list your past jobs going backwards in time, from your last job to your first job. (A)Your job plan? (B)My work experience? (C)When to start working? (D)Why applying for this job?
  ⇒ Ben 回答「是的，把過去的工作從最近的往回列」，可知 Ann 問「接下來是我的工作經歷嗎？」(My work experience?)。
19[C] Dave: Grandma, you need to renew your driver’s license if you want to keep driving. Grandma: But I’m just 71. I thought only people over 75 had to do it. Dave: Not anymore. The new rules say people have to renew their licenses at 70 now. Grandma: That won’t be a problem. I’m very healthy. . Dave: I totally agree, Grandma. I believe I’ll still get rides from you. (A)Maybe I should sell my car right now. (B)Maybe it’s time for me to stop driving. (C)I’m sure I can get my license renewed. (D)I’ll wait until I turn 70 to renew my license.
  ⇒ 奶奶說自己很健康、換照沒問題，接著說「我確定能換到新駕照」；Dave 也同意，相信還能搭奶奶的車。(A)(B) 與「沒問題」矛盾；(D) 奶奶已經 71 歲。
20[B] Willy: Did you hear that Dr. Jane Goodall ( 珍古德博士 ) passed away last year? Joan: It’s so sad. She spent her whole life studying chimpanzees in Africa. Willy: Yes. So now we know better how chimpanzees behave in the wild. (A)She put a lot of effort into protecting the oceans. (B)She really helped people understand these animals. (C)She gave so much love to the poor children in Africa. (D)She truly encouraged people to take care of stray cats. 英文 共同科目 Ⅲ. 綜合測驗：以下兩篇短文，共有8 個空格，為第21 至28 題，每題有四個選項， 請依各篇短文文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。
  ⇒ Willy 說「所以現在我們更了解黑猩猩在野外的行為」，可知前一句是「她真的幫助人們了解這些動物」。珍古德研究的是黑猩猩，不是海洋、兒童或流浪貓。
【題組文章】請依各篇短文文意，選出 個最適合該空格的答案。 ▲ 下篇短文共有4 個空格，為第21 － 24 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 May 18 is International Day for Women in Maritime, which recognizes the importance of women in the ocean transport industry. The theme for 2025 was “An Ocean of Opportunities for Women.” In Taiwan, women represent only 4 % of seafarers ( 航海人員 ) . 21 the 260 women seafarers, many have proved that seafaring can be a rewarding career. One woman who shows the way is Huang Chao-ling ( 黃昭玲 ) . Huang, who was a captain, is Taiwan’s first and only female harbor pilot. As a harbor pilot, she guides ships safely in and out of the port, which is a 22 job that requires taking risks, such as climbing onto a moving ship in big waves. Another front-runner is Lin Chia-ling ( 林嘉玲 ) , Taiwan’s first woman oil tanker captain. Lin’s job is to ensure reliable delivery of oil to all ports in Taiwan, 23 the weather is terrible. Huang and Lin share a hard career path, given that women seafarers face various challenges, including insufficient onboard facilities. Today, the maritime industry is working to create a gender-friendly workplace 24 . Such efforts are seeing results, with the number of Taiwanese women captains standing at 22 in 2024, up from 6 about ten years ago. ˉ
21[A]  (A)Among (B)During (C)Near (D)Opposite
  ⇒ Among the 260 women seafarers「在這 260 位女性航海人員之中」，許多人證明航海是值得的職業。among 在……之中。during 在……期間；near 靠近；opposite 在對面。
22[D]  (A)domestic (B)remote (C)simple (D)tough
  ⇒ 引水人要在大浪中爬上移動的船，需要冒險，是一份「艱難的」工作。tough 艱難的。domestic 國內的；remote 遙遠的；simple 簡單的。
23[A]  (A)even when (B)just where (C)or else (D)so that
  ⇒ 林嘉玲要確保石油可靠地送達各港口，「即使」天氣惡劣也一樣。even when 即使在……時候。just where 正在……地方；or else 否則；so that 以便。
24[C]  (A)to pose a career obstacle (B)to increase ocean-going ships (C)to improve women’s employment (D)to raise women’s work challenges
  ⇒ 航運業努力打造性別友善的職場，「以改善女性就業」，後文說女船長人數增加，證明努力有成果。(A)(D) 增加障礙與挑戰，方向相反；(B) 與性別友善無關。
【題組文章】ˉ ▲ 下篇短文共有4 個空格，為第25 － 28 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 The Tamkang Bridge ( 淡江大橋 ) has been under construction since 2019 and is ready for use this year. It was built because the Tamsui ( 淡水 ) and Bali ( 八里 ) areas have grown quickly in recent years, and more people now commute between them. Once it opens, people can save about half an hour when traveling between the two places. Besides making 25 smooth, the bridge will also appeal to visitors with its special architectural style. It was designed by the world-famous architect Zaha Hadid. Being the first bridge in Taiwan 26 through an international design competition, the Tamkang Bridge will become the world’s longest single-tower asymmetric cable-stayed bridge ( 單塔不對稱斜張橋 ) . Expressing a sense of art and beauty, the bridge’s 200-meter tower rises into the sky, 27 a dancer were lifting both hands in prayer. Moreover, the bridge’s shape goes well with the sunset over the Tamsui River, making the view much more eye-catching. Visitors can appreciate the riverside views here. With shorter travel time between Tamsui and Bali and its unique beauty, the Tamkang Bridge will play an important role in both. 28 . The bridge will definitely bring travel convenience and recreational benefits to the people of northern Taiwan. ˉ
25[B]  (A)air quality (B)traffic flow (C)water safety (D)local culture
  ⇒ 淡江大橋讓淡水與八里間通勤節省半小時，除了使「交通流動」順暢外，還能吸引遊客。traffic flow 車流。
26[A]  (A)selected (B)selecting (C)is selected (D)to select
  ⇒ the first bridge in Taiwan (that was) selected through an international design competition，用過去分詞 selected 表被動，修飾 bridge：「第一座經國際競圖選出的橋」。
27[A]  (A)as if (B)in case (C)in order that (D)as long as
  ⇒ 橋塔高聳入天，「彷彿」舞者雙手高舉祈禱。as if 好像，後接假設語氣 were。in case 以防；in order that 以便；as long as 只要。
28[D]  (A)dance and design (B)art and competition (C)construction and religion (D)transportation and tourism 英文 共同科目 Ⅳ. 閱讀測驗：以下有五篇短文，共有14 個題目，為第29 至42 題，請於閱讀短文 後，選出最適當的答案。
  ⇒ 前句說縮短淡水與八里的交通時間，又有獨特美景，因此大橋將在「交通與觀光」兩方面扮演重要角色，後句也說帶來交通便利與休閒效益。
【題組文章】ˉ ▲ 閱讀下文，回答第29 － 30 題 Elsa is telling Pam about her new hobby. Answer the questions based on the conversation and the blog. Elsa: Hey, Pam, I’ve started a blog. Pam: Really? What kind of things do you post? Elsa: Anything I feel like posting. Pam: You have to be careful about your personal information. Elsa: Of course! I never give out personal information like my address or things like that. Pam: And will you link to other sites and other blogs? Elsa: Yes, I’ll link to good podcasting blogs. Elsa’s Blog Home Blog About Me Contact Recent Posts April 2, 2026 Watched Barbie this afternoon with Mom and Dad. I think it is a great movie. Mom and I like it very much, but Dad doesn’t seem impressed. I found some very interesting reviews. Will add links to these blogs when I have finished reading them. April 6, 2026 Hi, I’m Elsa. Welcome to my blog! Aunt Nancy came to visit today. We haven’t seen her for almost two years. She is my mom’s youngest sister and a successful scientist. She asked what I wanted to be in the future. I said I had no idea at all. But, now I’ll start to think about it. April 8, 2026 Went to Pa Pasta with Mom. The owner is an Italian chef. He and his wife are my uncle’s friends. They met when my uncle studied in Italy. My favorite dish is Beef Risotto (beef stew with rice). Mom ordered Spaghetti Vongole (white wine clam pasta). We both had ice cream for dessert. Happy time! ˉ
29[A] What did Elsa post on her blog? (A)Family life (B)Pasta menu (C)Movie reviews (D)School activities
  ⇒ Elsa 部落格的三則貼文：和爸媽看電影、阿姨來訪、和媽媽吃義大利麵，都是家庭生活。她只說之後會連結影評，並未貼出菜單或學校活動。
30[C] According to the passage, what would Elsa probably do with her blog next? (A)Post her school activities. (B)Link to Aunt Nancy’s blog. (C)Link to movie review blogs. (D)Post her address and date of birth. 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ 4 月 2 日貼文說她找到有趣的影評，讀完後「會加上這些部落格的連結」(Will add links to these blogs)，所以接下來最可能連結影評部落格。(D) 她說絕不公開地址等個人資料。
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第31 － 32 題 Read the following line chart and paragraph about energy. Then answer the questions. Renewable energy in Taiwan includes solar energy. Solar energy comes from natural sources, renews quickly, and does not produce large amounts of greenhouse gases. When considering the transition to solar energy, it is important to weigh both the advantages and disadvantages. One major advantage of solar energy is that sunlight is plentiful and does not run out like natural gas or oil. Solar power can also help lower electricity bills. Besides, with owned solar panels, the property value can be increased. However, solar energy has some challenges. Since it depends on sunlight, we need battery storage systems to save the energy for cloudy days and nighttime. Although these systems are quite expensive, they provide limited energy storage. In addition, solar panels also require a lot of space, which can be a problem in crowded urban areas. ˉ 0.00 10.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 50.00 60.00 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Percentage Year Energy Supply in Taiwan from 2004 to 2024 Oil and Petroleum Products Coal and Coal Products Natural Gas Nuclear Renewable Energy
31[C] According to the line chart, what is one trend in Taiwan’s energy supply from 2004 to 2024? (A)Energy generated by natural gas has gradually decreased for the last 20 years. (B)Nuclear energy has accounted for more than 10 % of the energy supply since 2004. (C)Coal and coal products have been supplying about 30 % of the total energy since 2004. (D)Energy supplied by oil and petroleum products has steadily increased over the past 20 years.
  ⇒ 依折線圖，煤與煤製品自 2004 年起一直維持約 30% 的能源供應。(A) 天然氣逐年增加；(B) 核能在 10% 以下並逐漸下降；(D) 石油與石油製品從約 52% 降到 43%。
32[D] According to the paragraph, which of the following are the challenges of solar energy? (A)House value and pollution concerns (B)Energy source and greenhouse gases (C)Energy costs and weather dependence (D)Energy storage and space requirements 0.00 10.00 20.00 30.00 40.00 50.00 60.00 2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 Percentage Year Energy Supply in Taiwan from 2004 to 2024 Oil and Petroleum Products Coal and Coal Products Natural Gas Nuclear Renewable Energy 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ 文章說太陽能的挑戰是：需要昂貴、儲量有限的電池儲能系統，以及需要大量空間。(A)(B)(C) 中的房價提升、能源來源、降低電費都是優點，不是挑戰。
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第33 － 35 題 As the chart below shows, Din Tai Fung ( 鼎泰豐 ) has emerged as the top-performing restaurant in the United States ( US ) in terms of revenue per store, according to the 2025 Technomic Top 500 Chain Restaurant Report. Founded in 1958 in Taiwan as a cooking oil business, Din Tai Fung began selling xiao long bao in 1972 in Taipei. About 25 years later, it opened its first American branch store in Los Angeles. Over the years, it has expanded to 180 branch stores in 13 countries around the world. Din Tai Fung’s success was not achieved through expensive ads. Instead, the restaurant chain has built its brand on global consistent product excellence, operational discipline, and social media buzz. Whether in Los Angeles or Taipei, customers experience the same taste and service. Every Din Tai Fung xiao long bao is folded exactly 18 times and weighs precisely 21 grams. Through glass walls, customers can see chefs in the kitchen, making xiao long bao with exactness and care. The way the chefs make the food, the steam coming off the baskets, and the perfect look of each dish all make for great photos and videos. Customers post the pictures and share their dining experience widely online, giving the brand effective publicity. The consistent quality, combined with visual pleasure and the power of social media, has made Din Tai Fung successful and popular in the US. revenue 營收 ˉ 27.4 14.5 13.8 13.4 12.4 10.1 0 10 20 30 Din Tai Fung Mastro's Restaurants Del Frisco's Double Eagle Steak House Smith and Wollensky The Cheesecake Factory Nobu Restaurant Revenue ( Million USD ) US Restaurant Chains The Revenue per Store for the US Restaurant Chains
33[B] According to the chart, which of the following is correct? (A)The revenue per store of the Cheesecake Factory is half of that of Din Tai Fung. (B)The revenue per store of Mastro’s Restaurants is higher than that of Nobu Restaurant. (C)Nobu Restaurant has higher revenue per store than Del Frisco’s Double Eagle Steak House. (D)Smith and Wollensky’s revenue per store is one million USD more than that of Din Tai Fung.
  ⇒ Mastro's 每店營收 1450 萬美元，高於 Nobu 的 1010 萬美元。(A) Cheesecake Factory 為 1240 萬，不是鼎泰豐 2740 萬的一半；(C) Nobu 1010 萬低於 Del Frisco's 1380 萬；(D) Smith and Wollensky 比鼎泰豐少。
34[B] Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a reason that makes Din Tai Fung successful? (A)Every xiao long bao is folded 18 times and weighs 21 grams. (B)Din Tai Fung has 180 stores in 13 countries all over the world. (C)Customers can see chefs preparing food in glass-walled kitchens. (D)Customer service and taste of food are the same in any branch store.
  ⇒ 本題選「沒有」被提到作為成功原因的。180 家分店、13 國只是說明規模。文中說成功來自一致的產品品質（18 摺、21 克）、玻璃廚房的視覺效果，以及各分店一致的口味與服務。
35[C] Which is the correct order about Din Tai Fung’s business history? a. Starting to sell xiao long bao in 1972. b. Opening its first American branch store. c. Setting up a cooking oil business in Taiwan. d. Achieving the most revenue per store in the US. (A)a → b → c → d (B)a → d → c → b (C)c → a → b → d (D)c → d → b → a 27.4 14.5 13.8 13.4 12.4 10.1 0 10 20 30 Din Tai Fung Mastro's Restaurants Del Frisco's Double Eagle Steak House Smith and Wollensky The Cheesecake Factory Nobu Restaurant Revenue ( Million USD ) US Restaurant Chains The Revenue per Store for the US Restaurant Chains 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ 依序為：1958 年在臺灣開設食用油行（c）→ 1972 年開始賣小籠包（a）→ 約 25 年後在洛杉磯開設第一家美國分店（b）→ 2025 年報告中每店營收全美第一（d）。
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第36 － 38 題 Recent studies show that teenagers experience more anxiety and mental health issues than those in earlier generations. In his book The Anxious Generation: How the Great Rewiring of Childhood Is Causing an Epidemic of Mental Illness, Professor Jonathan Haidt explains that two major changes in childhood are mainly responsible for their problems. First, these young people lost real-world freedom during childhood. Their parents tended to protect them too much and carefully control their daily activities. They were not encouraged to explore outdoors, take risks, and solve problems independently. As a result, they might have missed many opportunities to develop confidence and independence. According to Professor Haidt, plenty of free, unsupervised outdoor play is important for healthy development. Without outdoor play, children may be less willing to try new things as they grow into teenagers. Another major change is the shift from a play-based childhood to a phone-based one. Since childhood, these young people have often spent many hours using smartphones and social media for leisure activities. This leads to several problems. For example, they do not get enough sleep because of long hours on screens. Instead of interacting face to face, they often communicate online, making them feel less connected to people in the real world. Also, constant phone messages and addictive apps make it hard for them to stay focused. When they cannot check their phones, they feel anxious. ˉ
36[D] Which of the following is the best conclusion for the above passage? (A)In a phone-based world, teenagers will spend more time on digital technologies like virtual reality and online shopping. These technologies will help them solve problems effectively, so companies should develop new features to meet their needs. (B)To address these concerns, teenagers should be allowed to use social media for two reasons: to make new friends and to talk to people face to face. In this way, they will become more confident about their future. (C)Smartphones have become part of everyday life. Teenagers cannot avoid using digital devices as apps become more interesting. Therefore, parents should help their children benefit from technology instead of strictly limiting their phone use. (D)To solve these problems, the following actions are suggested. First, children should spend more time interacting with people face to face instead of communicating online. Also, schools should provide more time and space for free, unsupervised play.
  ⇒ 文章指出青少年焦慮的兩大原因：童年缺乏真實世界的自由（少戶外自由遊戲）、以手機取代遊戲。最適合的結論是針對這兩點提出建議：多面對面互動、學校提供更多自由遊戲的時間與空間。(A)(B)(C) 都鼓勵使用科技，與文意相反。
37[D] According to the passage, which of the following is true? (A)Too many free, unsupervised activities make it hard for teenagers to focus and sleep. (B)A lack of guidance from parents is a main reason causing teenagers’ mental health issues. (C)Growing up in a phone-based childhood helps teenagers develop new skills and make friends easily. (D)The loss of outdoor play in childhood and too much online time may cause teenagers’ anxiety problems.
  ⇒ 文章說童年失去戶外遊戲與長時間使用手機，是青少年焦慮的主因。(A) 自由的戶外活動有益發展；(B) 問題是父母過度保護，不是缺乏引導；(C) 以手機為主的童年使人難以專注、與人疏離。
38[C] According to the passage, what would happen to children when their parents overprotected them? (A)It would be easier for them to deal with problems on their own. (B)They would develop a strong sense of teamwork and risk-taking. (C)It would be harder for them to become confident and independent. (D)They would have no problem making friends in a new environment. 英文 共同科目
  ⇒ 文中說父母過度保護，孩子沒有機會探索、冒險、獨立解決問題，因此「可能錯過發展自信與獨立的機會」。(A)(B)(D) 都與文意相反。
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第39 － 42 題 Taiwan is a global high-tech powerhouse because of its dynamic industries. Of these, the electronics industry is best known for its importance in the digital age. This industry has a competitive strength which was built from years of developing expertise in electronics manufacturing. Electronics manufacturing in Taiwan began around the mid-20th century. Initially, companies produced mainly components according to customers’ designs and requirements, functioning as contract manufacturers for other brands. In the process, they learned to adapt, innovate, and compete. By the 1990s, Taiwan had become a global leader in computer and notebook production. Major manufacturers developed the expert skills and knowledge for product designing and innovation. Today, some of them are able to provide a full range of electronics manufacturing services ( EMS ). These EMS providers serve various industries that include computing, communications, and consumer electronics. Four Taiwanese manufacturers have made it onto the list of the world’s top ten EMS providers. Taiwan’s electronics industry owes its success to several factors. First, there is a ready pool of professionals to meet industry needs. Secondly, official policies provide the necessary industrial support. Thirdly, a wide network of local suppliers adds to better efficiency and innovation. Last but not least, manufacturers pay special attention to producing high-quality products, rather than competing on price. Currently, the great demand for AI products offers new business opportunities. Manufacturers who ride the wave of change are making more money from AI servers than from iPhones. For the first time, AI-related products have beaten consumer electronics in manufacturing business. In fact, Taiwan made over 80 percent of the world’s AI servers ( 伺服器 ) in 2025. Quite clearly, this demonstrates the ability of Taiwan’s electronics industry to move forward with technology. ˉ
39[B] What is the passage mainly about? (A)Markets for Taiwan’s AI-related products (B)Progress of Taiwan’s electronics industry (C)Development of artificial intelligence industry (D)Examples of Taiwan’s electronics manufacturers
  ⇒ 文章依序說明臺灣電子業從代工起家、成為電腦筆電龍頭、發展 EMS，到現在搭上 AI 浪潮，主旨是臺灣電子產業的發展進程。(A)(C)(D) 只是文中的局部內容。
40[D] According to the passage, which is NOT an important reason for the strength of Taiwan’s electronics industry? (A)Labor pool (B)Government support (C)Business network (D)Product price
  ⇒ 本題選「不是」重要原因的。文中說廠商重視高品質產品，「而不是以價格競爭」(rather than competing on price)。人才庫、政府政策、本地供應商網絡都是成功因素。
41[D] Which is closest in meaning to “ride the wave of change” in paragraph 4? (A)let go of these new opportunities (B)have trouble with making the change (C)end up with missing new opportunities (D)take advantage of the new change
  ⇒ ride the wave of change 字面是「乘著變化的浪潮」，意指把握新的變化、從中獲利，與 take advantage of the new change 最接近。
42[C] According to the passage, which of the following is true? (A)Ten Taiwanese companies are providing electronic manufacturing services. (B)Taiwan was the world’s largest market for AI-related products in the 1990s. (C)AI servers are selling better than smartphones for electronics manufacturers. (D)Contract manufacturers in the early days designed new products for customers. 英文 共同科目 二、 非選擇題 ( 第Ⅰ題，每格2 分，共4 分；第 Ⅱ題6 分；第 Ⅲ 題6 分；共16 分 ) Ⅰ. 填充 說明：
  ⇒ 文中說搭上潮流的廠商從 AI 伺服器賺得比 iPhone 多，AI 相關產品首次勝過消費性電子。(A) 是有四家臺灣廠商進入全球前十大 EMS；(B) 1990 年代臺灣是電腦與筆電生產龍頭；(D) 早期代工廠是依客戶的設計生產零件。