1[A] We had better leave early to the heavy traffic to get home on time. (A)avoid (B)drop (C)invite (D)mind
2[A] Anny’s grandson is always full of and wants to go to the park every day. (A)energy (B)hurry (C)identity (D)safety
3[D] I’ve put on so much weight recently that these jeans are too for me to wear now. (A)loose (B)ripe (C)swift (D)tight
4[D] My boss totally accepted my suggestion and kept nodding to his full agreement. (A)deny (B)excuse (C)forget (D)indicate
5[B] To protect your head, when you ride a motorcycle, you must wear a . (A)beard (B)helmet (C)necklace (D)tie
6[C] David’s hair color is brown, but he recently dyed it purple. (A)ancient (B)historical (C)natural (D)opposite
7[A] We got train seats for the Lunar New Year season as we planned and made our reservation once tickets went on sale. (A)ahead (B)almost (C)either (D)even
8[C] To ease his pressure, Mr. Hung decided to listen to bedtime music for . (A)presentation (B)publication (C)relaxation (D)reputation
9[B] The police pursued the bank robber through the streets last night. (A)begged (B)chased (C)praised (D)treated
10[D] I have looked through the records extensively, but couldn’t find anything about the person you mentioned. (A)eventually (B)marginally (C)occasionally (D)thoroughly Ⅱ. 對話題：第11 至20 題，請依對話內容選出一個最適合的答案，使其成為有意義 的對話。
11[B] Father: OK! We are ready to start baking a cake. We need to find some things first. Son: So, what should I get? Father: Well, Son: Oh! Sorry, I drank the whole bottle yesterday! (A)the cake is baking now. (B)I need two cups of milk. (C)go get some flour for me. (D)we need 50 grams of butter. 英文 共同科目
12[C] Judy: OK, here’s your tea. But no snacks, as you wanted. Tina: Oh, thanks. Judy: I have some homemade cookies left. My mom made them. Tina: Oh, no thanks. I’m fine. I’m really full. (A)Are you sure I cannot eat any cookies? (B)Do you know you shouldn’t eat too much? (C)Are you sure you don’t want anything to eat? (D)Do you know you should buy something for me?
13[A] Ann: What do you want to see at the computer exhibition? Ken: I want to find the booth that has the virtual reality setup. Ann: Virtual reality? Ken: You have to put on a headset, and when the game is turned on, you feel like you are actually in the game. (A)How does it work? (B)What did you see? (C)When was it set up? (D)Where have you been?
14[A] Ted: Do you want to jog around the track one more time? Sue: Sure, I think I can make it. Ted: If you’re tired, you can wait here for me. I know you haven’t been jogging for a while. Sue: Come on, let’s go. (A)Don’t worry about me. (B)Please cover your tracks. (C)No, I’ll be waiting here. (D)Yes, you’re tired of jogging.
15[B] Tour agent: Welcome to Fun Travel, ma’am. My name is Willy. How may I help you? Alice: I’m here to get more information about your travel special. Tour agent: Good. Alice: I’d like to go in June, I think. (A)What do you want to see? (B)When do you plan to travel? (C)How is the weather in June? (D)Where would you like to go?
16[A] Ann: Do you want to see a movie? There’s a terrific animated movie at the theater. Dan: Animation? You mean like a cartoon? Ann: Not at all. Many adults also enjoy animation, just like children do. Dan: Really? I guess I should go and see if I like it. Ann: Great. The movie starts at 7 p.m. Do you want me to pick you up? (A)Isn’t that just for children? (B)Isn’t it nice to see it again? (C)Do the children go with us? (D)Do you get the tickets now?
17[D] Bank clerk: May I help you? Simon: Yes, where should I go to ask for a loan? Bank clerk: He’s on the second floor. Simon: Thank you. (A)How much do you plan to ask for? (B)What is the interest rate next year? (C)I’m afraid that we don’t offer any loans this year. (D)The manager in the loan department can help you. 英文 共同科目
18[B] Wife: So, which apartment do you like? Husband: I like the one near the post office. The best thing is it has a free parking space. Wife: I think the one near the train station is better. We can take the train to the office. And the rent is a lot cheaper! Husband: Yeah, you’re right. Let’s take it. (A)We can rest in the park. (B)But we don’t have a car. (C)It’s the best choice to make. (D)But it’s not cheap to park there.
19[A] Tim: What kind of vacation do you like the best? Kelly: I’m dog-tired. I need a break! I just want to go to the beach, and do absolutely nothing. Tim: Sounds good. But, I like doing things. I like to see places and go to museums. (A)A lazy vacation, of course. (B)A shopping vacation is great. (C)I like to go on business trips. (D)I like to work and save money.
20[D] Manager: Lin’s steak house. How may I help you? Mr. White: Hi, Manager: Just a minute…Yes, I have your booking here. It’s 6:30 p.m. Mr. White: That’s right. Unfortunately, our trip got delayed. Is it possible that I change the reservation to Friday? Manager: Sure. No problem. (A)I heard that you’ve just updated the menu. (B)I just want to check if you are open this Friday. (C)I’d like to book a table for two by the window. (D)I made a reservation under James White tonight. Ⅲ. 綜合測驗：以下兩篇短文，共有10 個空格，為第21 至30 題，每題有四個 選項，請依各篇短文文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。
【題組文章】選項，請依各篇短文文意，選出 個最適合該空格的答案。 ▲ 下篇短文共有5 個空格，為第21 － 25 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 When should a child start to learn to use a computer? The answer depends on 21 you ask. Some early childhood educators feel that “the earlier, the better.” They believe that in modern society, computer skills are essential for every child, just like reading and counting. 22 , children should start using and playing with computers before elementary school. However, other educators believe that computers could have a negative effect 23 the mental development of children. They say that children who play alone with a computer do not learn how to share or interact with others. Furthermore, children do not use their imagination enough 24 the computer screen shows everything. Perhaps the best way for children to use computers 25 to use them only for a short period of time each day. If a child uses a computer for only thirty minutes each day, she or he still has plenty of time to learn and play away from the computer. ˉ
21[B]  (A)which (B)whom (C)whose (D)how
22[D]  (A)Instead (B)Nonetheless (C)Otherwise (D)Therefore
23[C]  (A)near (B)from (C)on (D)at
24[A]  (A)because (B)or (C)so that (D)rather than
25[B]  (A)are (B)is (C)have (D)has 英文 共同科目
【題組文章】▲ 下篇短文共有5 個空格，為第26 － 30 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 Two government projects in Taiwan provide funds for children of foreign-born parents to understand more about their parents’ cultural background. The projects aim to help young people connect 26 their parents’ home countries. These places are mostly located in Southeast Asia, where about 180,000 foreign persons 27 to Taiwanese citizens come from. One of the projects pays for participants to visit their immigrant parents’ home countries. The purpose is to learn more about the local culture and language. 28 project organizes trips to Taiwanese- owned companies in Southeast Asia. Vietnam, 29 , receives the largest Taiwanese investment. These Taiwanese-owned companies provide employment for 60,000 Taiwanese. When they hire a new employee from Taiwan, they 30 the person’s ability to adapt to the Vietnamese culture. For many young Taiwanese with parents of Vietnamese origin, this offers an opportunity to work in their parents’ home country. ˉ
26[D]  (A)into (B)onto (C)from (D)with
27[B]  (A)marry (B)married (C)will marry (D)are married
28[C]  (A)Any (B)Other (C)The other (D)The only
29[C]  (A)however (B)similarly (C)for example (D)in addition
30[D]  (A)get off (B)get over (C)look after (D)look for Ⅳ. 閱讀測驗：以下有四篇短文，共有12 個題目，為第 31 至42 題，請於閱讀短文後， 選出最適當的答案。
【題組文章】選出最適當的答案。 ▲ 根據以下圖表，回答第31 － 32 題 The Diamond Hotel is a quarantine hotel. It has seventy rooms for guests. Every room can only have one guest. This line graph shows how many of the rooms were occupied during 2020 and 2021. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Number of Rooms Rooms Occupied at the Diamond Hotel 2020 2021
31[A] Since every room only had one guest, how many guests stayed at this hotel in May, 2021? (A)30 (B)40 (C)50 (D)60
32[D] According to the line graph, which of the following is true? (A)All the rooms in this hotel were occupied in July, 2021. (B)About 40 rooms in this hotel were left vacant in June, 2021. (C)More people were quarantined in this hotel in 2021 than 2020. (D)More than 40 rooms in this hotel were occupied in April, 2020. 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 Jan Feb March April May June July Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Number of Rooms Rooms Occupied at the Diamond Hotel 2020 2021 英文 共同科目
【題組文章】▲ 根據以下公告，回答第33 － 34 題 ˉ
33[C] What is the competition about? (A)Producing a video about student life and special education. (B)Creating a video specially for students who love the school. (C)Making a short video on how the school is special to oneself. (D)Filming a one-minute video of the Anniversary Celebration day.
34[D] According to the competition rules, which of the following is true? (A)Videos must be entries from former Karano students. (B)Judges can only get points for creativity and quality. (C)Students must hand in videos by December 1st , 2022. (D)Participants can only use material as allowed by law. 英文 共同科目
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第35 － 37 題 ˉ
35[C] According to Jim’s email, which of the following is true? (A)There are 3,400 people living in Cuzco. (B)Jim goes to help at school 7 days a week. (C)Jim is staying in Cuzco for about 4 weeks. (D)Cuzco is about 3 hours on foot to Machu Picchu.
36[C] Where was Molly when she wrote the email to Jim? (A)Cuzco (B)London (C)Paris (D)Machu Picchu 英文 共同科目
37[A] Which of the following could be inferred from these emails? (A)Jim can speak both Spanish and English. (B)Jim is good at art and likes da Vinci’s paintings. (C)Molly knew that Jim would like the volunteer work. (D)Molly likes the Louvre better than the British Museum.
【題組文章】( ) y ˉ ▲ 閱讀下文，回答第38 － 42 題 Carbon dioxide ( CO2 ) is good at holding in heat from the Sun, and even a small increase of the gas in the atmosphere can cause Earth to get even warmer. Carbon capture, usage and storage ( CCUS ) is about different technologies that can keep CO2 produced by factories and power plants from causing global warming. The idea is simple, and there are only a few main steps in the process. The first step is about trapping carbon emissions from factory chimneys. For instance, a filter can be placed in the chimney, so that the carbon is trapped and it cannot go out into the atmosphere. Then, the gas is piped to places where it can be stored or used. If stored underground, it cannot contribute to the climate crisis. If used, for instance, it can help grow greenhouse plants or make soda drinks. While CCUS projects can clearly benefit the environment, these projects are not straightforward as there are many issues to be dealt with, such as maintaining the storage site, which have slowed start-ups of CCUS projects worldwide. Thus, with only a few CCUS projects operating now, there still aren’t enough to seriously help with the world’s carbon emissions. Early forerunners in this technology are the US, Canada, and Norway. The good news is that CCUS has now gained momentum in other countries, where 30 new projects have begun in the past three years. The International Energy Agency says there must be many more to keep carbon emissions from heating the world too much. ˉ
38[A] What is the purpose of this article? (A)It informs us about CCUS. (B)It advises us against CCUS. (C)It introduces new CCUS projects. (D)It shows CCUS impact on technology.
39[A] What is the process of CCUS? (A)To trap the CO2 , and then either keep it or use it. (B)To use the CO2 , and then store it in greenhouse plants. (C)To pipe the CO2 , and then trap it to cause the climate crisis. (D)To store the CO2 underground, and then pipe it to the chimneys.
40[C] Why is carbon dioxide put underground? (A)To light up greenhouses. (B)To cool down soda drinks. (C)To limit global warming. (D)To worsen climate change.
41[B] Which of the following is closest in meaning to “momentum” in paragraph 2? (A)decrease (B)progress (C)wealth (D)fortune
42[B] What can be concluded from paragraph 2? (A)CCUS will be stopped from now on to save money. (B)The number of countries using CCUS may increase. (C)CCUS benefits problems such as storage site maintenance. (D)There are enough CCUS projects to stop heating the world. 英文 共同科目 二、 非選擇題 ( 第Ⅰ題，每格2 分，共4 分；第 Ⅱ 到 Ⅲ 題，每題6 分，共16 分 ) Ⅰ.填充 說明：