1[B] It is a big for people in this small town to learn that the only movie theater is going to shut down next month. (A)cable (B)shock (C)tube (D)zone
2[C] The animal rights group is going to a party to raise money for street cats. (A)break (B)fight (C)hold (D)spell
3[A] I have finished writing the novel, and I’m going to complete the last chapter tonight. (A)almost (B)already (C)always (D)altogether
4[D] In some countries, looking at someone in the eye for too long is considered , so you should avoid doing it. (A)basic (B)classical (C)legal (D)rude
5[B] If you keep blowing air into the balloon, it will with a loud bang. (A)aim (B)burst (C)explore (D)shine
6[D] The boss agreed to increase workers’ , so they can make more money to improve their life. (A)permits (B)risks (C)scales (D)wages
7[D] Since my teeth are very to sweets, I don’t eat candies and cookies. (A)attractive (B)effective (C)positive (D)sensitive
8[C] Amy’s proposal to get funding from the school did not meet any , so she got all the money she needed for her project. (A)appreciation (B)gratitude (C)resistance (D)sympathy
9[A] William’s mother was seriously hurt in the car accident; she will have to stay in the hospital for a while. (A)badly (B)cheaply (C)hardly (D)shortly
10[A] I’m sorry that I don’t have any spare money to lend you. I spent all my money buying a new cellphone for my mom. (A)extra (B)hot (C)quick (D)soft 英文 共同科目 Ⅱ. 對話題：第11 至20 題，請依對話內容選出一個最適合的答案，使其成為有意義 的對話。
11[D] Anita: There’s a famous Chinese restaurant across the road. They serve the best Peking duck. Sergio: Yes, I used to go there every week before I moved away from here. Anita: I really want to try their Peking duck. Sergio: Once in a long while. (A)Is it far away from here? (B)Does it really taste good? (C)Have you ever been there? (D)Do you still go there often?
12[A] Betty: Hello. I’m calling about your ad for the five-room rental apartment. Is it still available? Manager: Yes, it is. Betty: Yes. I’d like to. Can you tell me the address? (A)Would you like to see it? (B)Where did you see the ad? (C)When do you want to see it? (D)Will your friend come with you?
13[C] Alex: I’m interested in buying an electric car. Sales: Good choice. They cause less pollution, and there are lots of places in the city where you can charge your car. Alex: What if I want to leave the city? How far can I go before I need to charge the car? Sales: (A)It has gone too far. (B)You have no choice. (C)It has a range of 200 kilometers. (D)As far as I know, there’s no charge.
14[B] Jane: Guess what I saw during my trip to Paris last month? Roy: I bet you saw the Eiffel Tower ( 艾菲爾鐵塔 ) , right? Jane: Of course I saw that. And I also saw the Mona Lisa. Roy: You mean da Vinci’s ( 達文西 ) Mona Lisa? Jane: I saw it at the Louvre ( 羅浮宮 ) . (A)No way! (B)That’s the one. (C)You’re lucky! (D)Don’t mention it.
15[C] David: Do you like watching judo ( 柔道 ) competitions? Annie: No, not at all. But, I’m a big fan of Drangadrang ( 楊勇緯 ) . David: Really? You know him? Annie: He’s talented, strong and of course, very cute. He’s even won an Olympic medal! David: Wow! You really know him, huh? (A)How did you meet him? (B)What does he really like? (C)What do you like about him? (D)How did he know about judo? 英文 共同科目
16[B] Jimmy: I need to find a part-time job, Ms. King. Ms. King: May I know the reason? Jimmy: I need to support myself through school. Ms. King: I see. Jimmy: I can type pretty fast. (A)How soon do you need the job? (B)What kind of skills do you have? (C)What kind of support do you need? (D)What do you know about the school?
17[D] Secretary: Hello, Dean’s office, may I help you? Jack: Good morning, Sir. I’m looking for Dr. Huang. Secretary: Jack: OK. Could you let him know that Jack, his student, would like to make an appointment with him? Secretary: Sure, let me check his schedule. (A)I’m sorry there’s no such person here. (B)I’m sorry you dialed the wrong number. (C)I’m afraid he doesn’t work here anymore. (D)I’m afraid he’s not in the office right now.
18[B] Ms. Lin: Ms. Ting, Stella’s ballet show yesterday was terrific. She is great. Ms. Ting: Since she was seven. Ms. Lin: I can’t believe it. She must be a genius. (A)How often did she practice ballet? (B)How long has she been learning ballet? (C)How old do people start learning ballet? (D)How much will you pay for a ballet show?
19[A] Angel: Have you ever met new friends online? Teddy: Yes, I have. We still keep in touch now. Angel: How did you meet them? Teddy: (A)I joined an online group. (B)We never talked on the Net. (C)They met new friends on the street. (D)He continued to play online games.
20[B] Nancy: Let’s go out and play badminton. Do you know where the badminton gears and equipment are? Danny: Aren’t they in the closet next to you? Nancy: Danny: Why not go check the garage? (A)Yes, here they are. (B)I don’t see them here. (C)They sound closer to you. (D)No, we threw them away. 英文 共同科目 Ⅲ. 綜合測驗：以下兩篇短文，共有10 個空格，為第21 至30 題，每題有四個 選項，請依各篇短文文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。
【題組文章】▲ 下篇短文共有5 個空格，為第21 － 25 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 Taiwan’s east coast offers marvelous views of ocean wildlife. The chances of seeing a whale are very high in summer. It’s rather easy to spot whales, 21 whales swim past Taiwan’s east coast every year between April and October. Today, whale watching 22 a popular activity. The best time for whale watching is from June to August 23 the sea is calm. Whale watching makes up a major part of the tourism industry in Yilan, Taitung and Hualien counties. Whale watching tours have been 24 since 1997, and boat trips have been increasing. Tour operators are expected to follow regulations governing the activity. For example, to get a closer look at the whales, boats should 25 the animals from behind. A list of responsible whale watching principles is included in an official guide to reduce the impact of tourism on the behavior of the world’s biggest animals.
21[A]  (A)for (B)nor (C)so (D)yet
22[C]  (A)became (B)become (C)has become (D)will become
23[B]  (A)why (B)when (C)how (D)which
24[A]  (A)around (B)against (C)off (D)over
25[D]  (A)accept (B)admit (C)affect (D)approach
【題組文章】▲ 下篇短文共有5 個空格，為第26 － 30 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該 空格的答案。 People take different actions when seeing a stranger who needs help. In psychology, there are two theories about the way people act in that situation, 26 the bystander effect and the Good Samaritan effect. A bystander is a person who sees a problem but just stands and watches, and a Good Samaritan refers to the one who helps a stranger in trouble. The bystander doesn’t 27 to help, whereas the Good Samaritan jumps in to lend a hand. A bystander does not help because he or she does not want to look foolish by making a mistake when trying to help out. 28 , a Good Samaritan helps because he or she wants others to see how helpful he or she is. In addition, a Good Samaritan pays close attention 29 other Good Samaritans. His or her action is based on what others are doing. If he or she sees others helping, he or she is more likely to help 30 . So, when you see a stranger in need, will you be a bystander or a Good Samaritan?
26[A]  (A)called (B)calling (C)and called (D)while calling
27[C]  (A)cross out (B)hand in (C)step in (D)throw out
28[D]  (A)As a result (B)To sum up (C)In the first place (D)On the other hand
29[D]  (A)at (B)in (C)of (D)to
30[C]  (A)neither (B)otherwise (C)as well (D)so far 英文 共同科目 Ⅳ. 閱讀測驗：以下有四篇短文，共有12 個題目，為第 31 至42 題，請於閱讀短文後， 選出最適當的答案。
【題組文章】▲ 根據以下圖表，回答第31 － 32 題 The following graph shows how Mary, Sam, David and Linda spend their pocket money every month. Answer the questions based on the given information. 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Snacks Soft Drinks Transportation Entertainment (NTD) Monthly Expenses Mary Sam David Linda
31[D] How much does David spend on soft drinks every month? (A)About NT$800. (B)More than NT$500. (C)Exactly NT$400. (D)Less than NT$200.
32[B] Which of the following is true? (A)Mary spends the most money on transportation. (B)Sam spends more money on snacks than Linda. (C)Linda spends as much money as Mary on soft drinks. (D)David spends less money on entertainment than Sam. 0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 Snacks Soft Drinks Transportation Entertainment (NTD) Monthly Expenses Mary Sam David Linda 英文 共同科目
【題組文章】▲ 根據以下圖表，回答第33 － 35 題 Read the label below and answer the questions that follow. Drug Facts Uses Temporarily relieves these symptoms  sneezing  runny nose  watery, itchy eyes Warnings Ask a doctor before use if you have  glaucoma  breathing problems When using this product  you may get drowsy  avoid alcoholic drinks  be careful when driving a motor vehicle or operating machinery If pregnant or breastfeeding, ask a doctor before use. Directions Adults and children 12 years and over Take 2 tablets every 4 to 6 hours; not more than 12 tablets in 24 hours Children under 12 years Ask a doctor Other information Store in a cool, dry place
33[C] Which part should you check to find out how to take the medicine? (A)Uses (B)Warnings (C)Directions (D)Other information
34[B] Which effect should you be aware of if you want to take the medicine? (A)You may feel cool and have dry skin. (B)You may feel sleepy and cannot think clearly. (C)You may have watery eyes and a runny nose. (D)You may have itchy eyes and cannot breathe well.
35[A] According to the label, which of the following is true? (A)A 13-year-old child can take ten tablets in a day. (B)Adults should take the medicine with alcoholic drinks. (C)A patient can take two tablets every six hours to treat glaucoma. (D)A 30-year-old pregnant woman should take the medicine without asking a doctor. 英文 共同科目
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第36 － 37 題 The following notice is posted by a high school before the summer vacation. Answer the questions based on the given information. How to protect yourself from job scams A scam is a way of tricking people into giving money or personal details to criminals. In a job scam, criminals pose as employers to cheat you of your money or your personal information by offering you a job. Very often, they offer large sums of money for little skill, effort or experience. Here are the common job scams and tips to help you avoid them. Common job scams A type of job scams asks you to use your bank account to receive and pass on payments for others. They will pay you a fee for helping to transfer the money. Some scammers might ask you to deposit money into their account. Or, they will ask you for your bank details before they’ve even offered you the job. In another instance, the fake employer wants to set up an interview. But first, they ask you to provide your bank details, a scan of your identity card or other personal information. If a company is asking you to buy the products before you sell them, beware! Things to watch out for Unclear job description: Very little information about the job is provided and no skills or experience is required. Unbelievably high pay: The job requires very little effort for high returns. Requesting personal information: If you provide your bank account details, the scammer may use them to commit crimes. Remember: If a job offer seems too good to be true, it’s probably a scam. How can I protect myself? Do background check on the company and the person who claims to be hiring you. If a job offer doesn’t feel right, feel free to contact the school staff for help.
36[A] Which is NOT mentioned as how job scams work? (A)Applicants have to give their cellphones to the employer. (B)Applicants are asked to send in money before they get hired. (C)Applicants have to pay for products before they sell the items. (D)Applicants may be paid to use their bank accounts for money transfers.
37[C] Which of the following is true? (A)Scammers are people who help to look for criminals. (B)The notice gives a list of common job scam websites. (C)Job applicants should find out more about the employers. (D)The school staff helps employers feel good about job ads. 英文 共同科目
【題組文章】▲ 閱讀下文，回答第38 － 42 題 Technology is continuously changing the sports industry for the better. Electronic devices known as sensors can detect changes and provide instant information about the health and movements of the athlete. Technology has changed the way some athletes train by live tracking the athlete’s performances, perfecting the athlete’s movements, and preventing sports injuries. Using sensors worn by the athlete, sports trainers can measure and track performance in real time. Nearly everything about the athlete can be measured, from breathing and heart rate, to sweat and temperature. The real-time information can help the trainer determine what aspects each athlete needs to focus on more. During practice, the trainer can read the data and decide when it’s time to rest, stretch or train harder. In the past, however, the practice session would be recorded, and the athlete’s performance would be judged later after the practice. Technological tools also provide a lot of information about the athlete’s movements. These tools can measure the exact position, distance, and speed of the athlete. The sensors on a swimmer’s body, for example, provide data on movements like dive angle and leg movement. Observing these movements allows the trainer to help athletes perfect their performance. The most important effect of technology on sports training is that injuries have been sharply reduced. Training software can assist trainers to keep watch on all aspects of training, including diet, energy, and sleep. This helps prevent fatigue and self-created injuries during practice. Technology allows athletes to not only get the most out of their training but also stay injury free. Sports technology will undoubtedly increase the athlete’s potential.
38[B] What is the passage mainly about? (A)Tracking the performance of trainers. (B)Training athletes with technological tools. (C)Perfecting the body movements of trainers. (D)Preventing the damage of technological tools.
39[D] Which is closest in meaning to the phrase “live tracking” in paragraph 1? (A)Checking an activity after it is over (B)Discussing an activity that may happen (C)Following an activity before it happens (D)Observing an activity when it is taking place
40[D] According to the passage, how has technology changed sports training? (A)The athlete and the trainer can have a healthy diet. (B)The athlete and the trainer can stop during practice. (C)The trainer can understand the athlete’s performance only after practice. (D)The trainer can find out at once how the athlete performs during practice.
41[A] In the writer’s opinion, what is the best benefit of using technology in sports training? (A)Avoiding sports injuries. (B)Watching a performance. (C)Recording the sports practice. (D)Making the movements perfect.
42[D] Which of the following statements is true? (A)An athlete can detect the movements of sensor devices. (B)Technological tools measure only the athlete’s heart rate. (C)Trainers dive at a perfect angle when swimmers wear sensors. (D)Technological tools can show detailed movements of an athlete. 英文 共同科目 二、 非選擇題 ( 第Ⅰ題，每格2分，共4分；第 Ⅱ題6分；第 Ⅲ 題6分；共16分 ) Ⅰ. 填充 說明：