 
 
   
   
- 1- 
  
注意：考試開始鈴(鐘)響前，不可以翻閱試題本 
 
115 學年度科技校院四年制與專科學校二年制 
統 一 入 學 測 驗 試 題 本 
共同科目  
英 文  
 
 
【注 意 事 項】  
 
1.請核對考試科目與報考群(類)別是否相符。 
ˉ  
2.請檢查答案卡(卷)、座位及准考證三者之號碼是否完全相同，如有不
符，請監試人員查明處理。 
ˉ  
3.本試題本分為「選擇題」和「非選擇題」兩部分，共100 分，答對給
分，答錯不倒扣。試題本最後一題後面有備註【以下空白】。 
ˉ  
4.本試題本之第一部分「選擇題」共42 題，每題2 分，共84 分。第一
部分均為單一選擇題，每題都有 (A)、(B)、(C)、(D) 四個選項，請選
一個最適當答案，在答案卡(卷)同一題號對應方格內，用 2B 鉛筆塗滿
方格，但不超出格外。 
ˉ  
5.本試題本之第二部分「非選擇題」包括：填充1 題，4 分；句子重組1
題，6 分；中譯英1 題，6 分，共16 分。請依題號順序使用黑色墨水
的筆，將答案書寫於答案卡(卷)之「非選擇題作答區」指定範圍內。 
ˉ 
6.本試題本空白處或背面，可做草稿使用。 
ˉ  
7.請在試題本首頁准考證號碼之方格內，填上自己的准考證號碼及姓
名，考完後將「答案卡(卷)」及「試題本」一併繳回。 
ˉ  
 
准考證號碼：□□□□□□□□   姓名：＿＿＿＿＿＿＿  
考試開始鈴(鐘)響時，請先填寫准考證號碼及姓名，再翻閱試題本作答。 
 
公告試題僅供參考

第2 頁  
 115 年四技  
共12 頁 
 英文 共同科目 
-2- 
一、 選擇題 ( 第1 至42 題，每題2 分，共84 分 ) 
Ⅰ. 字彙題：第1 至8 題，每題均有一空格字詞，請選擇最適合的答案，以完成該
英文句子。第9 至10 題，每題均有一個劃底線的字詞，請在四個選項
中，選擇一個與劃底線的字詞意義最接近的答案。 
1. These clothes are still      , so you need to hang them in the sun to remove the water. 
 
(A) bare 
(B) dry 
(C) thin 
(D) wet 
ˉ  
2. Wang Guan-hong ( 王冠閎 ) , Taiwan’s “Butterfly King,” began his swimming journey in the third
grade when he       the school’s swimming team. 
 
(A) blocked  
(B) joined 
(C) pulled 
(D) rented 
ˉ  
3. The teacher treats all her students      , giving every student the same opportunity to
succeed. 
 
(A) carelessly  
(B) equally 
(C) instantly 
(D) silently 
ˉ  
4. With a calm, beautiful beach just within walking distance, this hotel is a       place to
relax. 
 
(A) difficult 
(B) fearful 
(C) rocky 
(D) suitable 
ˉ  
5. In order to       more customers, the bakery café offers a 20 % discount on each cup of
coffee for three days. 
 
(A) attract 
(B) blame 
(C) excuse 
(D) prevent 
ˉ  
6. Weather forecasts for one or two days ahead are quite      , providing correct weather
information most of the time. 
 
(A) accurate 
(B) doubtful 
(C) false 
(D) inferior 
ˉ  
7. Amy was certain that she had a high fever after measuring her body      . 
 
(A) existence 
(B) image 
(C) structure 
(D) temperature 
ˉ  
8. When the award presenter       Shu Qi ( 舒淇 ) as the winner of the Best Director Award
at the 30th Busan International Film Festival ( 釜山影展 ) , the audience stood up and clapped
their hands. 
 
(A) announced 
(B) circulated 
(C) inspected 
(D) preserved 
ˉ  
9. When buying a car, those who want to save money will pick a used one because it is a more
affordable option. 
 
(A) choice 
(B) material 
(C) quantity 
(D) sample 
ˉ  
10. Tim was extremely moved by the eight-part polyphony ( 八部合音 ) of the Bunun people ( 布農
族 ) , and he dreamed of singing with them on stage one day. 
 
(A) angrily 
(B) bravely 
(C) deeply 
(D) openly 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
公告試題僅供參考

115 年四技  
第3 頁 
英文 共同科目  
 共 12 頁 
   
   
- 3-  
  
Ⅱ. 對話題：第11 至20 題，請依對話內容選出一個最適合的答案，使其成為有意義
的對話。 
11. Customer:  Hi, do you sell phone chargers? 
Clerk:  
Yes, over there. Take a look, please. 
Customer:  Great, I’ll take this one. How much is it? 
Clerk:  
That’ll be NT$ 350.      . 
Customer:  No, just the charger. 
Clerk:  
OK, got it. 
 
(A) Is that all? 
 
(B) Anything else? 
 
(C) Cash or credit card? 
 
(D) It works well, right? 
ˉ  
12. Jane:  Did you go to the BLACKPINK concert? 
Tom:  Nope. I was busy preparing for a singing competition. 
Jane:  Oh! And did you go to the TWICE concert? 
Tom:       . 
Jane:  Lucky you! You got the tickets! I wish I were there with you. 
 
(A) They’ll never come again. 
 
(B) I went with my classmates. 
 
(C) I’m not a fan of these two groups. 
 
(D) You sang very well with me last time. 
ˉ  
13. Liz:  I’m going to the supermarket to pick up two boxes of mandarin oranges. My mother ordered
 
them for Chinese New Year. 
Jay:       . 
Liz:  They are a symbol of good fortune. We eat them to bring good luck. 
 
(A) Since when? 
 
(B) Which supermarket? 
 
(C) Why mandarin oranges? 
 
(D) How many mandarin oranges? 
ˉ  
14. Brian:  I heard you’re learning Spanish. Is it hard? 
Lily:  Yes, it is, but I like it. 
Brian:  You’re already 30.      . 
Lily:  No, not at all. Age is not a big deal. 
 
(A) How would you deal with it anyway? 
 
(B) Isn’t Spanish your favorite language? 
 
(C) When did you start learning Spanish? 
 
(D) Isn’t it too late to learn a new language? 
ˉ  
15. Peter:  Gosh. I left my bottled water on my bike. 
Rose:  For the whole afternoon? Then don’t drink it. It’s hot outside. The sun may have heated
 
it up. 
Peter:       . 
Rose:  Chemicals from plastics may have got into the water. It’s not good for your health. 
Peter:  I didn’t know that! 
 
(A) What’s wrong with that? 
 
(B) Where did I leave my bike? 
 
(C) When’s the sun going down? 
 
(D) Why did you bring that with you? 
公告試題僅供參考

第4 頁  
 115 年四技  
共12 頁 
 英文 共同科目 
-4- 
16. Mrs. Wu:  I’m going shopping. Would you mind picking up Jimmy at the sports center? 
Mr. Wu:  I’d like to, but I’ll have an online meeting soon. 
Mrs. Wu:  We’re out of food for dinner. There’s nothing left in the fridge. 
Mr. Wu:       . 
Mrs. Wu:  Great! You go book the restaurant now and I’ll get Jimmy. 
 
(A) Are you interested in sports? 
 
(B) Can I go shopping right now? 
 
(C) Then we can eat out tonight. 
 
(D) Let’s do online meeting together. 
ˉ  
17. Ming:  Did you know the skills contest in Taipei last year? 
A-Mei:  The Asian Skills Competition at Nangang Exhibition Center? 
Ming:  Yes. I was there. It was very impressive. The Taiwan team did a good job! 
A-Mei:       . 
Ming:  Twenty-two in total. We won the team title; we were the best in Asia! 
 
(A) Did we get any gold medals? 
 
(B) Did you go there by the Blue 22 bus? 
 
(C) Did you know anything about Car Painting? 
 
(D) Did we also enter the competition two years ago? 
ˉ  
18. Ann:  Hey, I’m writing my resume. What should I put first? 
Ben:  You can list your education first. 
Ann:  What’s next?      . 
Ben:  Yes. My advice is that you list your past jobs going backwards in time, from your last job to 
 
your first job. 
 
(A) Your job plan? 
 
(B) My work experience? 
 
(C) When to start working? 
 
(D) Why applying for this job? 
ˉ  
19. Dave:  
Grandma, you need to renew your driver’s license if you want to keep driving. 
Grandma:  But I’m just 71. I thought only people over 75 had to do it. 
Dave:  
Not anymore. The new rules say people have to renew their licenses at 70 now. 
Grandma:  That won’t be a problem. I’m very healthy.      . 
Dave:  
I totally agree, Grandma. I believe I’ll still get rides from you. 
 
(A) Maybe I should sell my car right now. 
 
(B) Maybe it’s time for me to stop driving. 
 
(C) I’m sure I can get my license renewed. 
 
(D) I’ll wait until I turn 70 to renew my license. 
ˉ  
20. Willy:  Did you hear that Dr. Jane Goodall ( 珍古德博士 ) passed away last year? 
Joan:  It’s so sad. She spent her whole life studying chimpanzees in Africa. 
Willy:  Yes.       So now we know better how chimpanzees behave in the wild. 
 
(A) She put a lot of effort into protecting the oceans. 
 
(B) She really helped people understand these animals. 
 
(C) She gave so much love to the poor children in Africa. 
 
(D) She truly encouraged people to take care of stray cats. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
公告試題僅供參考

115 年四技  
第5 頁 
英文 共同科目  
 共 12 頁 
   
   
- 5-  
  
Ⅲ. 綜合測驗：以下兩篇短文，共有8 個空格，為第21 至28 題，每題有四個選項，
請依各篇短文文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。 
▲ 下篇短文共有4 個空格，為第21 － 24 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該
空格的答案。 
 
  May 18 is International Day for Women in Maritime, which recognizes the importance of 
women in the ocean transport industry. The theme for 2025 was “An Ocean of Opportunities for 
Women.” In Taiwan, women represent only 4 % of seafarers ( 航海人員 ) .  21  the 260 women 
seafarers, many have proved that seafaring can be a rewarding career. One woman who shows 
the way is Huang Chao-ling ( 黃昭玲 ) . Huang, who was a captain, is Taiwan’s first and only 
female harbor pilot. As a harbor pilot, she guides ships safely in and out of the port, which is a
22  job that requires taking risks, such as climbing onto a moving ship in big waves. Another 
front-runner is Lin Chia-ling ( 林嘉玲 ) , Taiwan’s first woman oil tanker captain. Lin’s job is to 
ensure reliable delivery of oil to all ports in Taiwan,  23  the weather is terrible. Huang and 
Lin share a hard career path, given that women seafarers face various challenges, including 
insufficient onboard facilities. Today, the maritime industry is working to create a gender-friendly 
workplace  24 . Such efforts are seeing results, with the number of Taiwanese women captains 
standing at 22 in 2024, up from 6 about ten years ago. 
ˉ  
21. (A) Among 
(B) During 
(C) Near 
(D) Opposite 
ˉ  
22. (A) domestic 
(B) remote 
(C) simple 
(D) tough 
ˉ  
23. (A) even when 
(B) just where 
(C) or else 
(D) so that 
ˉ  
24. (A) to pose a career obstacle 
(B) to increase ocean-going ships 
 
(C) to improve women’s employment 
(D) to raise women’s work challenges 
ˉ  
▲ 下篇短文共有4 個空格，為第25 － 28 題，請依短文文意，選出一個最適合該
空格的答案。 
 
  The Tamkang Bridge ( 淡江大橋 ) has been under construction since 2019 and is ready for 
use this year. It was built because the Tamsui ( 淡水 ) and Bali ( 八里 ) areas have grown quickly 
in recent years, and more people now commute between them. Once it opens, people can save 
about half an hour when traveling between the two places. Besides making  25  smooth, the 
bridge will also appeal to visitors with its special architectural style. It was designed by the 
world-famous architect Zaha Hadid. Being the first bridge in Taiwan  
26 
 through an 
international design competition, the Tamkang Bridge will become the world’s longest 
single-tower asymmetric cable-stayed bridge ( 單塔不對稱斜張橋 ) . Expressing a sense of art 
and beauty, the bridge’s 200-meter tower rises into the sky,  27  a dancer were lifting both 
hands in prayer. Moreover, the bridge’s shape goes well with the sunset over the Tamsui River, 
making the view much more eye-catching. Visitors can appreciate the riverside views here. With 
shorter travel time between Tamsui and Bali and its unique beauty, the Tamkang Bridge will play 
an important role in both. 
28 
. The bridge will definitely bring travel convenience and 
recreational benefits to the people of northern Taiwan. 
ˉ  
25. (A) air quality 
(B) traffic flow 
(C) water safety 
(D) local culture 
ˉ  
26. (A) selected 
(B) selecting 
(C) is selected  
(D) to select 
ˉ  
27. (A) as if 
(B) in case 
(C) in order that 
(D) as long as 
ˉ  
28. (A) dance and design 
(B) art and competition 
 
(C) construction and religion 
(D) transportation and tourism 
公告試題僅供參考

第6 頁  
 115 年四技  
共12 頁 
 英文 共同科目 
-6- 
Ⅳ. 閱讀測驗：以下有五篇短文，共有14 個題目，為第29 至42 題，請於閱讀短文
後，選出最適當的答案。 
ˉ  
▲ 閱讀下文，回答第29 － 30 題 
 
  Elsa is telling Pam about her new hobby. Answer the questions based on the conversation
and the blog. 
 
Elsa:  Hey, Pam, I’ve started a blog. 
Pam:  Really? What kind of things do you post? 
Elsa:  Anything I feel like posting. 
Pam:  You have to be careful about your personal information. 
Elsa:  Of course! I never give out personal information like my address or things like that. 
Pam:  And will you link to other sites and other blogs? 
Elsa:  Yes, I’ll link to good podcasting blogs. 
 
 
Elsa’s Blog 
 
Home 
 
Blog
About Me 
 
Contact 
Recent Posts 
April 2, 2026 
Watched Barbie this afternoon with Mom and Dad. I think it is a 
great movie. Mom and I like it very much, but Dad doesn’t seem 
impressed. I found some very interesting reviews. Will add links 
to these blogs when I have finished reading them.
April 6, 2026 
Hi, I’m Elsa. 
Welcome to my 
blog! 
Aunt Nancy came to visit today. We haven’t seen her for almost 
two years. She is my mom’s youngest sister and a successful 
scientist. She asked what I wanted to be in the future. I said I had 
no idea at all. But, now I’ll start to think about it.
April 8, 2026 
Went to Pa Pasta with Mom. The owner is an Italian chef. He and 
his wife are my uncle’s friends. They met when my uncle studied 
in Italy. My favorite dish is Beef Risotto (beef stew with rice). 
Mom ordered Spaghetti Vongole (white wine clam pasta). We 
both had ice cream for dessert. Happy time! 
 
ˉ  
29. What did Elsa post on her blog? 
 
(A) Family life 
(B) Pasta menu 
 
(C) Movie reviews 
(D) School activities 
ˉ  
30. According to the passage, what would Elsa probably do with her blog next? 
 
(A) Post her school activities. 
 
(B) Link to Aunt Nancy’s blog. 
 
(C) Link to movie review blogs. 
 
(D) Post her address and date of birth. 
公告試題僅供參考

115 年四技  
第7 頁 
英文 共同科目  
 共 12 頁 
   
   
- 7-  
  
▲ 閱讀下文，回答第31 － 32 題 
 
  Read the following line chart and paragraph about energy. Then answer the questions. 
 
 
 
 
Renewable energy in Taiwan includes solar energy. Solar energy comes from natural 
sources, renews quickly, and does not produce large amounts of greenhouse gases. When 
considering the transition to solar energy, it is important to weigh both the advantages and 
disadvantages. One major advantage of solar energy is that sunlight is plentiful and does not run 
out like natural gas or oil. Solar power can also help lower electricity bills. Besides, with owned 
solar panels, the property value can be increased. However, solar energy has some challenges. 
Since it depends on sunlight, we need battery storage systems to save the energy for cloudy days 
and nighttime. Although these systems are quite expensive, they provide limited energy storage. 
In addition, solar panels also require a lot of space, which can be a problem in crowded urban 
areas.  
ˉ  
31. According to the line chart, what is one trend in Taiwan’s energy supply from 2004 to 2024? 
 
(A) Energy generated by natural gas has gradually decreased for the last 20 years. 
 
(B) Nuclear energy has accounted for more than 10 % of the energy supply since 2004. 
 
(C) Coal and coal products have been supplying about 30 % of the total energy since 2004. 
 
(D) Energy supplied by oil and petroleum products has steadily increased over the past 20 years.
ˉ  
32. According to the paragraph, which of the following are the challenges of solar energy? 
 
(A) House value and pollution concerns 
 
(B) Energy source and greenhouse gases 
 
(C) Energy costs and weather dependence 
 
(D) Energy storage and space requirements 
 
 
 
0.00
10.00
20.00
30.00
40.00
50.00
60.00
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024
Percentage
Year
Energy Supply in Taiwan from 2004 to 2024
Oil and Petroleum
Products
Coal and Coal
Products
Natural Gas
Nuclear
Renewable
Energy
公告試題僅供參考

第8 頁  
 115 年四技  
共12 頁 
 英文 共同科目 
-8- 
▲ 閱讀下文，回答第33 － 35 題 
 
  As the chart below shows, Din Tai Fung ( 鼎泰豐 ) has emerged as the top-performing
restaurant in the United States ( US ) in terms of revenue per store, according to the 2025 Technomic
Top 500 Chain Restaurant Report. 
  Founded in 1958 in Taiwan as a cooking oil business, Din Tai Fung began selling xiao long
bao in 1972 in Taipei. About 25 years later, it opened its first American branch store in Los
Angeles. Over the years, it has expanded to 180 branch stores in 13 countries around the world.
  Din Tai Fung’s success was not achieved through expensive ads. Instead, the restaurant chain
has built its brand on global consistent product excellence, operational discipline, and social
media buzz. Whether in Los Angeles or Taipei, customers experience the same taste and service.
Every Din Tai Fung xiao long bao is folded exactly 18 times and weighs precisely 21 grams.
Through glass walls, customers can see chefs in the kitchen, making xiao long bao with exactness
and care. The way the chefs make the food, the steam coming off the baskets, and the perfect look
of each dish all make for great photos and videos. Customers post the pictures and share their
dining experience widely online, giving the brand effective publicity. The consistent quality,
combined with visual pleasure and the power of social media, has made Din Tai Fung successful
and popular in the US. 
 revenue 營收
 
ˉ  
33. According to the chart, which of the following is correct?  
 
(A) The revenue per store of the Cheesecake Factory is half of that of Din Tai Fung. 
 
(B) The revenue per store of Mastro’s Restaurants is higher than that of Nobu Restaurant. 
 
(C) Nobu Restaurant has higher revenue per store than Del Frisco’s Double Eagle Steak House.
 
(D) Smith and Wollensky’s revenue per store is one million USD more than that of Din Tai Fung.
ˉ  
34. Which of the following is NOT mentioned as a reason that makes Din Tai Fung successful? 
 
(A) Every xiao long bao is folded 18 times and weighs 21 grams. 
 
(B) Din Tai Fung has 180 stores in 13 countries all over the world. 
 
(C) Customers can see chefs preparing food in glass-walled kitchens. 
 
(D) Customer service and taste of food are the same in any branch store. 
ˉ  
35. Which is the correct order about Din Tai Fung’s business history? 
a. Starting to sell xiao long bao in 1972. 
b. Opening its first American branch store. 
c. Setting up a cooking oil business in Taiwan. 
d. Achieving the most revenue per store in the US. 
 
(A) a → b → c → d 
(B) a → d → c → b 
(C) c → a → b → d 
(D) c → d → b → a 
27.4
14.5
13.8
13.4
12.4
10.1
0
10
20
30
Din Tai Fung
Mastro's Restaurants
Del Frisco's Double Eagle Steak House
Smith and Wollensky
The Cheesecake Factory
Nobu Restaurant
Revenue ( Million USD )
US Restaurant Chains
The Revenue per Store for the US Restaurant Chains
公告試題僅供參考

115 年四技  
第9 頁 
英文 共同科目  
 共 12 頁 
   
   
- 9-  
  
▲ 閱讀下文，回答第36 － 38 題 
 
  Recent studies show that teenagers experience more anxiety and mental health issues than those
in earlier generations. In his book The Anxious Generation: How the Great Rewiring of Childhood Is
Causing an Epidemic of Mental Illness, Professor Jonathan Haidt explains that two major changes in
childhood are mainly responsible for their problems. 
  First, these young people lost real-world freedom during childhood. Their parents tended to
protect them too much and carefully control their daily activities. They were not encouraged to
explore outdoors, take risks, and solve problems independently. As a result, they might have
missed many opportunities to develop confidence and independence. According to Professor
Haidt, plenty of free, unsupervised outdoor play is important for healthy development. Without
outdoor play, children may be less willing to try new things as they grow into teenagers. 
  Another major change is the shift from a play-based childhood to a phone-based one. Since
childhood, these young people have often spent many hours using smartphones and social media
for leisure activities. This leads to several problems. For example, they do not get enough sleep
because of long hours on screens. Instead of interacting face to face, they often communicate
online, making them feel less connected to people in the real world. Also, constant phone
messages and addictive apps make it hard for them to stay focused. When they cannot check their
phones, they feel anxious. 
ˉ  
36. Which of the following is the best conclusion for the above passage? 
 
(A) In a phone-based world, teenagers will spend more time on digital technologies like virtual
reality and online shopping. These technologies will help them solve problems effectively, so
companies should develop new features to meet their needs. 
 
(B) To address these concerns, teenagers should be allowed to use social media for two reasons:
to make new friends and to talk to people face to face. In this way, they will become more
confident about their future. 
 
(C) Smartphones have become part of everyday life. Teenagers cannot avoid using digital devices
as apps become more interesting. Therefore, parents should help their children benefit from
technology instead of strictly limiting their phone use. 
 
(D) To solve these problems, the following actions are suggested. First, children should spend
more time interacting with people face to face instead of communicating online. Also, schools
should provide more time and space for free, unsupervised play. 
ˉ  
37. According to the passage, which of the following is true? 
 
(A) Too many free, unsupervised activities make it hard for teenagers to focus and sleep. 
 
(B) A lack of guidance from parents is a main reason causing teenagers’ mental health issues. 
 
(C) Growing up in a phone-based childhood helps teenagers develop new skills and make friends
easily. 
 
(D) The loss of outdoor play in childhood and too much online time may cause teenagers’ anxiety
problems. 
ˉ  
38. According to the passage, what would happen to children when their parents overprotected them?
 
(A) It would be easier for them to deal with problems on their own. 
 
(B) They would develop a strong sense of teamwork and risk-taking. 
 
(C) It would be harder for them to become confident and independent. 
 
(D) They would have no problem making friends in a new environment. 
 
 
 
 
公告試題僅供參考

第10 頁  
 115 年四技  
共12 頁 
 英文 共同科目 
-10- 
▲ 閱讀下文，回答第39 － 42 題 
 
  Taiwan is a global high-tech powerhouse because of its dynamic industries. Of these, the
electronics industry is best known for its importance in the digital age. This industry has a
competitive strength which was built from years of developing expertise in electronics
manufacturing. 
  Electronics manufacturing in Taiwan began around the mid-20th century. Initially, companies
produced mainly components according to customers’ designs and requirements, functioning as
contract manufacturers for other brands. In the process, they learned to adapt, innovate, and
compete. By the 1990s, Taiwan had become a global leader in computer and notebook production.
Major manufacturers developed the expert skills and knowledge for product designing and
innovation. Today, some of them are able to provide a full range of electronics manufacturing
services ( EMS ). These EMS providers serve various industries that include computing,
communications, and consumer electronics. Four Taiwanese manufacturers have made it onto the
list of the world’s top ten EMS providers. 
  Taiwan’s electronics industry owes its success to several factors. First, there is a ready pool
of professionals to meet industry needs. Secondly, official policies provide the necessary
industrial support. Thirdly, a wide network of local suppliers adds to better efficiency and
innovation. Last but not least, manufacturers pay special attention to producing high-quality
products, rather than competing on price. 
  Currently, the great demand for AI products offers new business opportunities. Manufacturers
who ride the wave of change are making more money from AI servers than from iPhones. For
the first time, AI-related products have beaten consumer electronics in manufacturing business.
In fact, Taiwan made over 80 percent of the world’s AI servers ( 伺服器 ) in 2025. Quite clearly,
this demonstrates the ability of Taiwan’s electronics industry to move forward with technology.
ˉ  
39. What is the passage mainly about? 
 
(A) Markets for Taiwan’s AI-related products 
 
(B) Progress of Taiwan’s electronics industry 
 
(C) Development of artificial intelligence industry 
 
(D) Examples of Taiwan’s electronics manufacturers 
ˉ  
40. According to the passage, which is NOT an important reason for the strength of Taiwan’s
electronics industry?  
 
(A) Labor pool 
(B) Government support 
 
(C) Business network 
(D) Product price 
ˉ  
41. Which is closest in meaning to “ride the wave of change” in paragraph 4? 
 
(A) let go of these new opportunities 
(B) have trouble with making the change 
 
(C) end up with missing new opportunities 
(D) take advantage of the new change 
ˉ  
42. According to the passage, which of the following is true? 
 
(A) Ten Taiwanese companies are providing electronic manufacturing services. 
 
(B) Taiwan was the world’s largest market for AI-related products in the 1990s. 
 
(C) AI servers are selling better than smartphones for electronics manufacturers. 
 
(D) Contract manufacturers in the early days designed new products for customers. 
 
 
 
 
公告試題僅供參考

115 年四技  
第11 頁 
英文 共同科目  
 共 12 頁 
   
   
- 11-  
  
二、 非選擇題 ( 第Ⅰ題，每格2 分，共4 分；第 Ⅱ題6 分；第 Ⅲ 題6 分；共16 分 )
Ⅰ. 填充 
說明： 
▲ 請依據中文提示，將試題內空格 ①、② 答案之完整單字(含提示之字首)，
分別作答於答案卷之作答欄 ①、② 之指定範圍內以完成句子。 
▲ 請勿抄題，每格限填一字，超過一字者視為錯誤，不予計分。 
 
 
1. 
美國著名攀岩家霍諾德僅花91 分鐘就成功到達台北101 大樓的頂端。 
Famous American climber Alex Honnold managed to r  ①   the top of Taipei 101
in only 91 m  ②  .  
ˉ  
Ⅱ. 句子重組 
說明： 
▲ 請將題中 5 段提示字詞重組成一完整句子，並於句尾加上適當標點符號。 
▲ 請將重組後的句子寫在答案卷之「非選擇題作答區」指定範圍內，答案中不能
增減字詞或修改變化字詞，請勿抄題。 
 
 
2. 
fake health information online / The police officer / was made by AI / the expert who gave / 
reported that  
ˉ  
Ⅲ. 中譯英 
說明： 
▲ 請將以下中文句子譯成正確、通順、達意的英文，並將答案寫在「非選擇題
作答區」之指定範圍內，請勿抄題。 
 
 
3. 
所有的生命都應該被尊重，並且必須享有基本的權利。  
ˉ  
 
 
【以下空白】 
公告試題僅供參考

第12 頁  
 115 年四技  
共12 頁 
 英文 共同科目 
-12- 
 
 
公告試題僅供參考
