   公告試題僅供參考

注意：考試開始鈴(鐘)響前，不可以翻閱試題本


109 學 年 度 科 技 校 院 二 年 制
  統 一 入 學 測 驗 試 題 本

     共同科目

      英 文





          【注 意 事 項】





                                                                                                 ˉ   1.請核對考試科目與報考群(類)別是否相符。
   2.請檢查答案卡(卷)、座位及准考證三者之號碼是否完全相同，如有不



                                                                    ˉ   符，請監試人員查明處理。
   3.本試卷共50 題，每題2 分，共100 分，答對給分，答錯不倒扣。試卷



                                                                                     ˉ   最後一題後面有備註【以下空白】。
   4.本試卷均為單一選擇題，每題都有 (A)、(B)、(C)、(D) 四個選項，請
   選一個最適當答案，在答案卡同一題號對應方格內，用 2B 鉛筆塗滿



                                                           ˉ   方格，但不超出格外。



                                                                                                      ˉ   5.有關數值計算的題目，以最接近的答案為準。



                                                                                         ˉ   6.本試卷空白處或背面，可做草稿使用。
   7.請在試卷首頁准考證號碼之方格內，填上自己的准考證號碼，考完後



                                                                                            ˉ    將「答案卡(卷)」及「試題」一併繳回。


      准考證號碼：□□□□□□□□
考試開始鈴(鐘)響時，請先填寫准考證號碼，再翻閱試題本作答。


                                                        - 1- ◢
第2 頁                                                                                109 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

 Ⅰ. 字彙測驗：共有15 題，請選擇一個最適合的答案，以完成該句。
 1. Jason wears glasses to help him see distant objects clearly because he       from nearsightedness.
    (A) promotes          (B) suffers            (C) tightens           (D) whistles

 2. Free samples of our factory’s products are available upon             . Please feel free to contact us
    for more information.
    (A) horror             (B) marble            (C) necktie           (D) request

 3. These little pet pictures are so warm-looking and charming that they will absolutely         people’s
    hearts.
    (A) melt              (B) dodge             (C) freeze            (D) harm

 4. Michael’s paintings are so incredibly         and full of details that they are often mistaken
    as photos.
    (A) rusty              (B) sticky             (C) vivid             (D) wicked

 5. The blood bank is          to the public to roll up their sleeves and help solve the problem of
    blood shortage.
    (A) appealing         (B) escaping          (C) importing         (D) opposing

 6. People should be warned not to take selfies at high         areas including bodies of water,
    mountain peaks, and tall buildings.
    (A) deck              (B) fairy              (C) lobby             (D) risk

 7. The new collection of women’s clothing is         teenagers because of its low prices and
     attractive styles.
    (A) recording          (B) spelling           (C) targeting          (D) weighing

 8. Unlike fruits and vegetables, highly        and unnatural foods such as chips and French fries
    are not good for our health.
    (A) processed         (B) religious          (C) sincere           (D) wealthy

 9. Any unattended luggage and personal items at the airport will be treated as        and removed
   by the police.
    (A) delightful         (B) profitable          (C) suspicious         (D) tolerant

10. Although Sammy and Stella are twins and look alike, they have very         personality traits
    and seldom behave the same.
    (A) amateur           (B) distinct            (C) identical          (D) tremendous

11. Isabella’s magazine subscription will be         for a full year after she has her credit card charged
    again.
    (A) extended          (B) insulted           (C) lectured           (D) pirated

12. An        committee was formed to find out the cause of the helicopter crash where several
    military officials were killed.
    (A) appearance        (B) entertainment      (C) investigation      (D) orchestra

13. Visitors can take pictures of the Eiffel Tower in Paris, France during the day, but            is not
    allowed at nighttime.
    (A) philosophy        (B) photography       (C) resignation        (D) reputation

14. The Chen family felt concerned that their holiday was likely to be        due to the incoming
    typhoon.
    (A) exploded          (B) inspired           (C) ruined            (D) treasured



-2-
109 年二技                                              第3 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 8 頁   公告試題僅供參考

15. These figures aim to         the various factors that have impacted the very low birth rate in
    certain countries.
    (A) appoint           (B) illustrate          (C) offend            (D) upset

Ⅱ. 對話測驗：共有10 題，為第16 − 25 題，請依對話內容，選出一個最適合的
       答案，使其成為有意義的對話。

16. Clerk: How may I help you?
    Bruce: Yes, I’d like two scoops of vanilla ice cream in a cup.
    Clerk: OK. _______________
    Bruce: Chocolate chips on it, please.
    (A) Would you care for some salad?
    (B) What flavor of ice cream do you like?
    (C) Would you like to add some toppings?
    (D) What kind of dressing would you like?

17. Tina: Happy Coffee Shop. Tina Chen speaking.
    Beth: Hi, Tina. This is Beth. Is my mom there?
    Tina: No, she just left. _______________
    Beth: She didn’t take it with her. If you see her again, could you ask her to call me?
    (A) May I take a message?
    (B) May I ask who’s calling?
    (C) What can I do for you, Beth?
    (D) Why don’t you try her cell phone?

18. Lucy: Hello, this is Lucy Lin from Doctor Wang’s office. May I speak to Mr. Chen, please?
    John: Yes, speaking.
    Lucy: Mr. Chen, I’m calling to remind you of your 4:15 appointment tomorrow.
    John: Oh! Thanks. _______________ I thought it was 4:15 today.
    (A) It’s time to call it a day.
    (B) It’s a good thing you called.
    (C) I’m glad the doctor visited me.
    (D) I’ll go to the hospital earlier today.

19. Ava: The supermarket down the street is selling everything at half price.
   Noah: I heard it’ll close down due to the high rent.
   Ava:  That’s right, and I think it’s an ideal time to stock up on coffee.
   Noah: _______________ I’m also going to buy some later today.
    (A) I couldn’t agree with you more.
    (B) I shouldn’t have gone for the sale.
    (C) We never seem to see eye to eye.
    (D) We need to wait until the sale ends.

20. Bob:  I need something to drink. Is there a vending machine in this building?
    Rosa: Uh-huh, it’s down the hall on your left, but it has an out-of-order sign on it.
   Bob: Today is really not my day. _______________
    Rosa: Take it easy. I’ll buy you drinks after I get my work done.
    (A) Let’s buy drinks from the machine.
    (B) Nothing’s wrong with the machine.
    (C) I have no problem using the machine.
    (D) Even a machine is not working for me.


                                                         - 3- ◢
第4 頁                                                                                109 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

21. Sandy: Do you want to go on a trip with us to Hawaii this summer?
    Hannah: I’ve never been abroad. How much will it cost?
    Sandy:   It’ll cost about NT$80,000 per person for a week.
    Hannah: My goodness, that’s a lot of money! _______________
    (A) I wish I could hit the jackpot.
    (B) I shouldn’t have traveled abroad.
    (C) I wish I had never gone to Hawaii.
    (D) I should’ve visited Hawaii with you.

22. Franklin: I’d like to change some US dollars into Japanese yen, please. What’s the currency
            exchange rate today?
    Clerk:    It’s one US dollar to 109 Japanese yen. May I know your purpose of the foreign
            exchange?
    Franklin: _______________
    Clerk:  How nice! Here is the form. Please sign here, sir.
    (A) There’s no charge for the traveler’s check.
    (B) I plan to visit the cherry blossoms in Kyoto.
    (C) I don’t know the currency exchange rate history.
    (D) There’re solutions to solve your current problems.

23. Jane: What are you doing, Paul?
    Paul: I’m packing for my camping trip.
    Jane: Why are you taking a raincoat? Didn’t the weather forecast say it’s going to be sunny?
    Paul: Yes, but _______________ In case it rains, I won’t get wet.
    (A) a pair of sunglasses will come in handy.
    (B) the sun can be very strong during the trip.
    (C) you had better listen to the weather forecast.
    (D) the weather changes quickly in the mountains.

24. Katy: Hey Jack, do you feel like going bowling?
    Jack: _______________ I already did it yesterday.
    Katy: How about playing an online chess game then?
    Jack: Yeah, count me in.
    (A) Sure. I’ll catch you later.
    (B) Hmm. I’m not up for it today.
    (C) No problem! We can hang out there.
    (D) Cool! Let’s ask Tom to play together.

25. Nick: Hey, any news from the job you applied for?
    Rose: No. I’ve been waiting for the response for two weeks.
    Nick: Take it easy. _______________
    Rose: Thanks. I really appreciate it.
    (A) They want to hurt your feelings.
    (B) That’s the thing you should worry about.
    (C) I will keep my fingers crossed for you.
    (D) Chances are they’re coming to the company.





-4-
109 年二技                                              第5 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 8 頁   公告試題僅供參考

Ⅲ. 綜合測驗：下面三篇短文共有15 個空格，為第26 − 40 題，請依各篇短文
       文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。

▲閱讀下文，回答第26 − 30 題
         Australia is known for its diverse and unique wildlife; however, this has changed since last
    year. In November 2019, the bushfires greatly impacted the southeast area,   26   the state of
   New South Wales. During the process, koalas were burned and people tried to rescue them from
    the fire. The   27   koalas were settled in a temporary animal hospital and slept in laundry
    baskets while their hands and feet were wrapped in bandages.   28   January 2020,  it was
    estimated the bushfires had burned down 3,000 houses, killed one billion native animals, and
    burned across 18.626 million hectares, which  is five times the   29    of Taiwan. The
    consequences of the bushfires are   30    the loss of wildlife and property,   30   a large
   amount of carbon dioxide (CO2 ) emission. People should be aware that these severe bushfires
   were caused by, and may result in, a vicious cycle of climate change.

26. (A) accordingly       (B) especially         (C) interestingly       (D) originally

27. (A) rescue            (B) rescues            (C) rescued           (D) rescuing

28. (A) Depending on     (B) Except for         (C) Far from          (D) Up to

29. (A) size               (B) tank              (C) vest              (D) wire

30. (A) as ... as                                  (B) either ... or
    (C) neither ... nor                           (D) not only ... but also



▲閱讀下文，回答第31 − 35 題
         In America and Europe, many people believe that animals are not just something they own.
    In their opinion, animals have their own rights   31   their own lawyers to make sure that
    they get those rights. Consequently, more and more pet owners are hiring pet lawyers to
    handle a variety of   32   cases involving their pets. Some pet owners want to set up a pet
    trust   33  money is saved for their pet. When the owner passes away, the money from the
     trust pays to care for the pet as long as   34    . If a couple files for a divorce, they can hire a pet
    lawyer to help determine who gets the pet, and thus the pet’s preferences are considered.  35   the
    loving friendship between the pet and owner, many owners value their pets and want to protect
    their pets’ interests. Even though hiring a pet lawyer can be expensive, many pet owners feel
    that it’s worth it.

31. (A) as well as         (B) despite            (C) in honor of        (D) since

32. (A) dusty             (B) legal              (C) metal             (D) salty

33. (A) who              (B) what              (C) why              (D) where

34. (A) its living          (B) their living        (C) it lives            (D) they live

35. (A) Because of        (B) Contrary to        (C) Different from     (D) Rather than





                                                         - 5-
第6 頁                                                                                109 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

▲閱讀下文，回答第36 − 40 題
     A pandemic refers to a disease that is existing in almost all parts of the world. It is a
    widespread outbreak of an infectious disease   36   place across international boundaries and
    affecting lots of people. It can also happen in agricultural animals and plants such as cattle and
    bananas. There   37   some major pandemics recorded in human history,   38    , cholera,
    smallpox, tuberculosis, and influenza. One of the most serious pandemics was the Black Death
   which killed nearly half the people of western Europe in the 14th century.   39   fight against
    pandemics, the World Health Organization (WHO) has come up with a flow chart that shows
   how a new virus moves from the first few infections in human beings to a pandemic. This
    begins with the virus infecting animals. Then the virus moves to the   40   where it spreads
   among people. Finally, the pandemic ends when infections have spread internationally and are
    effectively controlled afterwards.

36. (A) taking             (B) took              (C) that taking        (D) that took

37. (A) have              (B) has               (C) have been         (D) has been

38. (A) additionally       (B) for example       (C) hence             (D) in short

39. (A) Compared to      (B) In order to         (C) Owing to         (D) With regard to

40. (A) luck              (B) minute            (C) reason            (D) stage

Ⅳ. 閱讀測驗：下面兩篇短文共有10 題，每篇各有5 題，為第41 − 50 題，
請閱讀短文後，選出最適當的答案。

▲閱讀下文，回答第41 − 45 題
      Some people choose to purchase organic fruits or vegetables for their health benefits
    because farmers do not use chemical substances or pesticides during the process of growing
    them. However, organic foods are usually associated with high costs, resulting in some people
    not buying them as a part of their daily diet. For those who cannot afford to buy organic foods,
     is it really unhealthy to eat regular conventional foods?
         Luckily, some vegetables and fruits do not necessarily have any pesticides left behind after
    they are done growing, so people do not have to worry about the chemicals causing cancer.
   According to the Environmental Working Group (EWG) in the United States, chemicals are
   seldom found in certain organic or regular foods. For example, avocados and pineapples do not
    contain any pesticides, even though they are not organically planted, because  it  is quite
    impossible for pesticides to go into their skins. Asparagus is another chemical-free vegetable
   due to the fact that it has a natural substance that can break down pesticides. Broccoli contains
    natural pesticide materials that will produce an unpleasant smell or taste to keep insects away.
   Buying organic mushrooms  is not necessary because they are usually grown indoors, and
    farmers rarely use chemicals to help them grow. The dark purple jackets of eggplants are like a
    protective coat that prevents chemicals from entering the vegetable.
        There are a variety of delicious fruits and vegetables that are planted without the use of any
    chemicals, or the chemicals that are used do not remain on these plants. As long as people
    choose the right foods, they can still enjoy eating non-organic foods and save money at the same
    time.





-6-
109 年二技                                              第7 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 8 頁   公告試題僅供參考

41. What is the main idea of the passage?
    (A) Eating organic food helps fight against cancer.
    (B) Organic eating is pricey, but it’s worth the price.
    (C) How to keep insects from eating plants isn’t easy.
    (D) Certain foods don’t need to be organically planted.

42. According to the passage, why can some fruits and vegetables avoid containing pesticides?
    (A) They have a hard skin.
    (B) They have a bad look.
    (C) They have a delicious smell.
    (D) They have a supply of water.

43. According to the passage, which of the plants are usually grown indoors without using pesticides?
    (A) Avocados.         (B) Eggplants.         (C) Mushrooms.       (D) Pineapples.

44. According to the passage, which of the following statements is NOT true?
    (A) Asparagus can produce a substance that helps to break down pesticides.
    (B) Broccoli should be organically planted due to its unpleasant smell and taste.
    (C) Eggplants’ dark purple skin can help to keep away from chemical substances.
    (D) The thick skins of pineapples and avocados can stop pesticides from entering.

45. Which of the following inferences can be drawn from the passage?
    (A) Eating healthy doesn’t mean that people have to choose organic foods only.
    (B) The chemicals used for growing plants continue to exist for all the plants.
    (C) It’s just an old wives’ tale that pesticides are the major factor in causing cancer.
    (D) People can still enjoy non-organic foods if they pay more money for high quality.

▲閱讀下文，回答第46 − 50 題
       Have you ever heard the phrase “Big Brother is watching you” ? The twenty-first century
    has seen an increase in the chances of being watched or monitored, that is, an increase in
    surveillance, in our daily lives. People are getting used to being monitored by cameras, having
    private messages inspected at work, and having conversations recorded by banks or other
    businesses. Surveillance can be a form of monitoring via electronic devices, such as security
    cameras, or via Internet interception, such as email monitoring. Whether surveillance is useful
    for society is the current focus of public debate. For those who support surveillance, they think
      it helps to protect social security, while for those who disagree with it, they worry about some
    issues regarding how surveillance can be regulated.
        For supporters, surveillance can be helpful for the authorities to gather information, prevent
    crimes, and protect citizens. They argue that surveillance is very important in terms of tracking
    criminals and terrorist activities. With the help of surveillance tools, information can be sent
    directly to a facial recognition system. This can, for example, automatically recognize suspects
   and direct the police to their location.
         Nevertheless, for opponents, surveillance can be considered an invasion of privacy. For this
    reason, human rights activists have argued against it. When the purpose of surveillance is used
   mainly for monitoring, they have expressed deep concern that the society may turn out to be a
   mass surveillance society, with limited or even non-existent freedom. For instance, people may
    not have anything to hide when they are monitored by cameras. The authorities could make
    people obey the rules based only on what they have seen from the cameras without asking for
    opinions or permissions.





                                                         - 7-
第8 頁                                                                                109 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

46. What is the best title for this passage?
    (A) The Benefits of Surveillance
    (B) The Definitions of Surveillance
    (C) The Inventions about Surveillance
    (D) The Arguments about Surveillance
47. Which of the following is NOT the reason why the authorities would prefer surveillance?
    (A) The invasion of privacy.
    (B) The protection of society.
    (C) The prevention of crimes.
    (D) The collection of information.
48. What is the third paragraph mainly about?
    (A) The human rights of party activists.
    (B) The method to inspect private emails.
    (C) The reason for concern about monitoring.
    (D) The changes made to protect our privacy.
49. According to the passage, which of the following statements is true?
    (A) People have found it alright to be monitored wherever they are.
    (B) The use of facial recognition systems can help the police to find criminals.
    (C) Human rights activists support the use of surveillance tools to help society.
    (D) The invasion of privacy in most cases is the major concern for the authorities.
50. Which of the following inferences can be drawn from the passage?
    (A) People have no doubts about the use of surveillance for their daily lives.
    (B) People who oppose surveillance like to live in a mass monitoring society.
    (C) The use of surveillance has given people more advantages than disadvantages.
    (D) The use of surveillance needs to consider people’s privacy, safety, and freedom.




          【以下空白】





-8-