   公告試題僅供參考

注意：考試開始鈴(鐘)響前，不可以翻閱試題本


  110 學 年 度 科 技 校 院 二 年 制
   統 一 入 學 測 驗 試 題 本

     共同科目

      英 文





          【注 意 事 項】

  1.請核對考試科目與報考群(類)別是否相符。
  2.請檢查答案卡(卷)、座位及准考證三者之號碼是否完全相同，如有不
   符，請監試人員查明處理。
   3.本試卷共50 題，每題2 分，共100 分，答對給分，答錯不倒扣。試卷
   最後一題後面有備註【以下空白】。
  4.本試卷均為單一選擇題，每題都有 (A)、(B)、(C)、(D) 四個選項，請
   選一個最適當答案，在答案卡同一題號對應方格內，用 2B 鉛筆塗滿
   方格，但不超出格外。
  5.有關數值計算的題目，以最接近的答案為準。
  6.本試卷空白處或背面，可做草稿使用。
  7.請在試卷首頁准考證號碼之方格內，填上自己的准考證號碼，考完後
   將「答案卡(卷)」及「試題」一併繳回。


      准考證號碼：□□□□□□□□
考試開始鈴(鐘)響時，請先填寫准考證號碼，再翻閱試題本作答。


                                                       - 1- ◢
第2 頁                                                                                 110 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

 Ⅰ. 字彙測驗：共有15 題，請選擇一個最適合的答案，以完成該句。

 1. While learning how to ride a bicycle, Johnny has come to realize that he can maintain his
                     if he keeps moving.
   (A) balance            (B) harvest            (C) lullaby            (D) symbol

 2. We need to decide what sales strategy we should             for encouraging customers to buy
    the new products.
   (A) confuse           (B) freeze             (C) pursue            (D) reduce

 3. As soon as the lifeguard saw someone nearly drown in the swimming pool, he took
    action to save the man's life.
   (A) loose              (B) minor             (C) rusty             (D) swift

 4. Nancy is good at managing her money, and she places a            of her salary into a savings
    account each month.
   (A) culture            (B) portion            (C) receipt            (D) tremble

 5. A new             to teaching in Taiwan is the flipped classroom where students work in groups
    to discuss what they have studied at home.
   (A) approach          (B) forehead          (C) objection          (D) security

 6. As climate change has already happened on Earth, scientists expect extreme weather events to
   become more             in the future.
   (A) artistic            (B) crunchy           (C) frequent          (D) industrial

 7. Engineers have been fixing the computer system since  it suddenly          and stopped
    operating in the early morning.
   (A) crashed            (B) knitted            (C) quoted            (D) wrapped

 8. Children should learn to express their             to others whenever they receive gifts or
   someone shows kindness to them.
   (A) atmosphere        (B) evaluation         (C) foundation        (D) gratitude

 9. People in Taiwan can         COVID-19 vaccines produced by global companies when they
    are available on the market.
   (A) infect             (B) mislead           (C) obtain            (D) revise

10. Hotels provide most doors with "Do Not            " signs so that the staff knows not to enter
    the room at certain times.
   (A) Cherish            (B) Disturb           (C) Predict           (D) Relieve

11. The tour guide told the  tourists when to            in front of the fountain before  their
     art museum tour began.
   (A) assemble          (B) endanger          (C) quarrel           (D) translate

12. Henry has been constantly warned by the manager that his bad behavior might             his
    chance of getting a promotion.
   (A) enlarge            (B) install             (C) rescue            (D) wreck

13. In addition to science fiction, young adults enjoy reading              literature that describes
    imaginary and magical worlds.
   (A) cushion            (B) fantasy            (C) horizon           (D) reality




-2-
110 年二技                                              第3 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 8 頁   公告試題僅供參考

14. Some people like to shop at the wholesale store because they find it             to buy large
   amounts of things at low prices there.
   (A) aggressive        (B) continuous        (C) economical        (D) pessimistic

15. George still actively engages in learning and education to improve his            performance,
    even though he is in his late sixties.
   (A) mental            (B) remote            (C) scarce            (D) vacant

Ⅱ. 對話測驗：共有10 題，為第16 − 25 題，請依對話內容，選出一個最適合的
       答案，使其成為有意義的對話。
16. Robert: Excuse me. Is this the bus going to the train station?
    Rosie:  _______________
    Robert: Oh, then this is not it.
    Rosie:  No, you'll need to take it from the opposite direction.

   (A) No, this bus is not going to the zoo.
   (B) Well, it depends on where you want to go.
   (C) Yes, this bus will take you to the train station.
   (D) Well, this bus is going to the other end, the zoo.

17. Peter:  Let's discuss where to eat with our guests after the meeting.
    Frank:  It's more convenient to dine in the cafeteria at our company.
    Peter:  Yes, but it might be less formal if we don't take them out to lunch.
    Frank: _______________ Let's flip a coin. Heads for in and tails for out.

   (A) There's a middle ground.
   (B) Either way should be fine.
   (C) When we eat matters a lot.
   (D) It's the key to a healthy diet.

18. Liam:  Hi, Alison. Do you have any hobbies after school?
    Alison: Yes, I love to play chess. How about you?
    Liam:  _______________
    Alison: Maybe we can arrange both activities for the weekend.

   (A) Actually, I hate to be outdoors.
   (B) We'd better go home before it rains.
   (C) Actually, I prefer playing soccer to board games.
   (D) We'd like to begin today's class with a jazz chant.

19. Mike:  My friends are raving about Netflix's newest hit The Queen's Gambit.
   Emma: _______________
    Mike:  To me, it's the title, the plot, and the characters.
   Emma: Thanks for your recommendation. I'm gonna follow it.

   (A) What else do your friends enjoy watching?
   (B) What's so interesting about this TV series?
   (C) I'll book a meeting room for your presentation.
   (D) I'm following the latest fashion trend on social media.



                                                         - 3- ◢
第4 頁                                                                                 110 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

20. Susan:  I'm starving. Let's grab a bite.
    Teddy: What kind of food do you want?
    Susan: _______________
    Teddy: OK. I think we can find some in the cafeteria.

   (A) I have a craving for tacos.
   (B) I have a poor appetite recently.
   (C) I'm good at being a couch potato.
   (D) I'm cooking by following a recipe.

21. Tiffany: I'd like to get a part-time job this semester since tuition's gone up so much.
    Angela: That makes sense. Did you discuss it with your parents?
    Tiffany: Yes, I did. They told me not to work too many hours a day.
    Angela:  I can't agree with them more. _______________

   (A) They'd prefer you not to study.
   (B) Above all, we should work hard.
   (C) They'd like you to work long hours.
   (D) After all, we're here to go to school.

22. Aaron: Do you have the sales proposal with you?
    Mike:  Hold on! It's in my briefcase and I left it in my apartment.
    Aaron:  I'll wait here, but _______________ or we'll be late for work.
    Mike:  Thanks for reminding me about the proposal. I'll be right back.

   (A) make it quick
   (B) make ends meet
   (C) take turns to look for the proposal
   (D) take a rain check on your invitation

23. Joan:  What do you want for your birthday gift?
    Betty: Mom, may I have a puppy? We've talked about this. Now I'm old enough to take care of
           one.
    Joan: OK. _______________
    Betty: Sure! I'd love to get one from the animal shelter.

   (A) Instead of renting one, let's buy one.
   (B) Instead of making one, let's borrow one.
   (C) Instead of buying one, let's adopt one.
   (D) Instead of borrowing one, let's purchase one.

24. Jacky: Is it safe to travel in the States during the pandemic?
    Linda: Why? _______________
    Jacky: Bingo! I was assigned to host a launch event in Florida next month.
    Linda: Poor you! Buy both medical and travel insurance before your trip.

   (A) Is Disney World in Florida closed?
   (B) Are you going there on business?
   (C) A fancy restaurant was reserved for the party.
   (D) My flight was cancelled because of the pandemic.





-4-
110 年二技                                              第5 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 8 頁   公告試題僅供參考

25. Tina:  Hi, Alan. _______________
    Alan: The 2020 Nobel prize winner Louise Glück's poetry The Wild Iris.
    Tina: What a coincidence! I've just read the news yesterday.
    Alan: Fantastic! Let's look forward to the discussion.

   (A) Where're we gonna meet for the library tour?
   (B) Would you mind inviting Justin for a chat over coffee?
   (C) Shall I check the last meeting notes on my smartphone?
   (D) What're we gonna read for the next book club meeting?

Ⅲ. 綜合測驗：下面三篇短文共有15 個空格，為第26 − 40 題，請依各篇短文
       文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。
 ▲閱讀下文，回答第26 − 30 題
        Perhaps you have heard that drinking eight glasses of water per day is important for health.
   Water is one of the most important substances that humans need in order to live and grow.
     26  enough water or other liquid is essential to good health. However, simply drinking eight
    glasses of water a day is not always helpful for everyone. Health experts indicate that seniors
   may need   27   amount of water to help stay healthy.   28    average healthy adults, the
    elderly lose water faster. In addition, your water intake may depend on the type of   29    that
   you follow. For instance, if you drink a lot of coffee or other caffeinated drinks, you will lose
    extra water   30   an increase of urine. Also, if the food and drink you usually have tend to be
    salty, spicy, or sugary, you should increase your water intake by a little bit.

26. (A) Being taken in     (B) Having taken in    (C) Take in           (D) Taken in

27. (A) a decrease         (B) a decreased        (C) an increase        (D) an increased

28. (A) Compared with    (B) Familiar with      (C) Opposed to        (D) Similar to

29. (A) loss               (B) edge              (C) diet              (D) output

30. (A) on the lookout for  (B) as a result of       (C) leading to         (D) resulting in

 ▲閱讀下文，回答第31 − 35 題
       Have you ever wondered how different cultures think about food? Research shows that
   American families talk about whether the food is healthy   31    Italians care more about how
    tasty it is. British parents negotiate with kids over snacks. In France, children are taught   32
    food; in Sweden, all family members eat   33   a symbol of equality. In Taiwan, we like to talk
   about the history, poetry, and seasonal changes of food. The evolution of Taiwanese dishes is
    divided into three periods. First, high-end restaurants   34    Taiwanese dishes during the
   Japanese colonial era (1895 to 1945). Next, settlers from China brought in more dishes in the
   post-World War  II  era.  Finally, from the 1990s    35     , advanced cooking  skills have
    popularized Taiwanese cuisine. With people becoming more concerned about what is on their
    plate, food talks are heading towards topics of environment and health.

31. (A) because           (B) otherwise          (C) since             (D) while
32. (A) and evaluated      (B) be evaluating      (C) to evaluate        (D) the evaluation
33. (A) the same food as   (B) as same the food   (C) the food same as   (D) the same as food
34. (A) are serving        (B) used to serve       (C) serve themselves   (D) were served
35. (A) as from           (B) before long        (C) since when        (D) until now




                                                         - 5-
第6 頁                                                                                 110 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

 ▲閱讀下文，回答第36 − 40 題
       At such a young age, financial management might be the last thing on your mind. However,
     it is something you have to cope with, or it could become a   36    later in your life. To begin
    with, you need to  truly understand the necessity of your expenses and create a budget
   accordingly because living   37    your means, meaning not to spend more money than you
    earn, is essential to financial success. Furthermore, learning how to save money is another key.
      38     , accumulating an emergency fund over time would help you cover unexpected costs.
    Life does not always stick to your plan, so it is better to start saving for a   39   day. Managing
    life-long expenses is challenging,   40      it is a task that must be done for most people. As a
   proverb says, "wealth ignores those who ignore it." It is never too soon to take responsibility for
   planning your finances ahead.

36. (A) bad egg           (B) big cheese         (C) hot potato         (D) hat rack

37. (A) away             (B) beyond            (C) out               (D) within

38. (A) Blow by blow     (B) Little by little      (C) Side by side       (D) Word by word

39. (A) blue              (B) public             (C) rainy             (D) smart

40. (A) but               (B) than              (C) how              (D) which

Ⅳ. 閱讀測驗：下面兩篇短文共有10 題，每篇各有5 題，為第41 − 50 題，
       請閱讀短文後，選出最適當的答案。

  ▲閱讀下文，回答第41 − 45 題
      Some people may have the experience of admiring the pictures of food shown on the
    restaurant menu. But they are speechless after seeing the food served. Travelers may find out
    that the beautiful 5-star hotel they booked online just looks good from outside but not inside.
   This is what marketers or marketing companies can do to use misleading advertisements in
    order to sell their products and services.
       Consumers may wonder how marketers can take something unattractive and turn  it to
   something as amazing as they see in the advertisement. It is not just food that looks different
   from how it looks in the ad. Basically, anything can be made to look better with camera tricks
   and Photoshop, a computer program that allows users to make changes to a digital image.
   Moreover, behind those cool photos, it is a skilled and creative photographer that plays a key
    role in finishing the photo image.
        Marketers have their way of telling a story to sell their products or services. As consumers,
   we know  that marketers can  lie about  their products. According to a survey, American
   consumers indicated the reasons why marketers tend to lie. At the top of that list is because they
   want to sell their products, their brands, and their ideas more effectively.
        This lack of trust has been built up over the years, ever since marketers began using false
    advertising to sell their products. However, the widespread use of the Internet has allowed
   consumers to have more choices over which products to buy. In a world where everyone seems
    to be selling something online for a little money, consumers care if sellers tell true and honest
    stories about their brands and products.

41. What is the main idea of the passage?
   (A) The techniques used in advertising photography.
   (B) The need to shoot creative photos for businesses.
   (C) The reasons why photography is important in boosting sales.
   (D) The trust between marketers and consumers in digital marketing.



-6-
110 年二技                                              第7 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 8 頁   公告試題僅供參考

42. Which of the following is closest in meaning to the word misleading in the first paragraph?
   (A) dense             (B) false              (C) insecure          (D) unattractive

43. According to the passage, which of the following is the key to creating photos of
    advertisements?
   (A) Photoshop tools.                         (B) Photo editing apps.
   (C) A desktop computer.                     (D) A skilled photographer.

44. According to the passage, which of the following statements is true?
   (A) Photographers can use camera tricks to take creative photos.
   (B) Consumers seldom doubt about the marketing messages on TV.
   (C) Marketers lie because they want to avoid trouble for their career.
   (D) Advertising and marketing are the professions people trust the most.

45. Which of the following inferences can be drawn from the passage?
   (A) It is unlikely for businesses to earn the trust of consumers.
   (B) Photographers should trick consumers to spend more money.
   (C) Honesty is the best way for marketers to win over customers.
   (D) Marketers have found no need to tell a product story to customers.

  ▲閱讀下文，回答第46 − 50 題
       The spread of COVID-19 has led to the closure of schools around the world and resulted in
    the rise in popularity of video conferencing in virtual classrooms. However, some people may
    feel concerned about the quality issues and challenges of the shift to the online environment.
      Some believe that video conferencing is a powerful and flexible tool to meet educational
    goals more efficiently than before. Given the wide selection of options offered by online
    learning systems, teachers can prepare suitable online resources and create an appropriate
    e-learning environment to suit the needs of different types of learners, i.e., visual, audio, solo, or
    interactive learners. In addition, video conferencing can improve student attendance because it
   allows students to attend classes from any location of their choice, therefore lowering their
   chances of missing classes.
        Others argue that teaching via video conferencing is not as simple as just seating students in
    front of a webcam. Students might be easily distracted by any surrounding social media and fail
    to concentrate on their screens when taking online lessons. Technical problems such as hardware
    failure, network connection issues, and software bugs can interrupt the flow of online classes or
   make it difficult for students to catch up with their virtual classmates. Another problem is the
    lack of human interaction usually provided by face-to-face classroom settings. This minimal
    interaction between students and teachers in online instruction often leads to a sense of isolation
   among students.
       Video conferencing in education certainly has both advantages and disadvantages. Learning
   about  its negative effects and reducing them are thus very important to help teachers and
    students benefit from the digital world during the COVID-19 pandemic.

46. What is the main idea of the passage?
   (A) The positive and negative effects of online classes.
   (B) An introduction to the online seating arrangement system.
   (C) The stories about a powerful system to fight against diseases.
   (D) An approach to virtual physical interactions between teachers and students.





                                                         - 7-
第8 頁                                                                                 110 年二技
共8 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

47. According to the passage, how can video conferencing increase attendance in virtual
    classrooms?
   (A) Students can take online lessons at a place of their convenience.
   (B) Classrooms are closed, and there is no current attendance record.
   (C) Schools have cancelled the roll call requirement due to COVID-19.
   (D) Teachers are allowed to give private lessons at students' own homes.

48. According to the passage, which of the following is considered a negative effect of online
    learning?
   (A) Camera shyness.                         (B) Technical difficulties.
   (C) Active solo performance.                 (D) Constant human interaction.

49. According to the passage, which of the following statements is NOT true?
   (A) Students' lack of access to reliable Internet may affect their learning performance.
   (B) Students may find it hard to stay focused in front of the screen because of social media.
   (C) A sense of isolation is a problem with online learning that some students might experience.
   (D) Online learning systems cannot tailor the educational experience to individual students.

50. Which of the following inferences can be drawn from the passage?
   (A) Educators have experienced only benefits when using video conferencing.
   (B) Teachers and students will not enjoy the digital world until COVID-19 disappears.
   (C) Finding solutions to the technical problems caused by video conferencing is necessary.
   (D) Video conferencing has led to more competitiveness between classmates than ever before.




          【以下空白】





-8-