   公告試題僅供參考

注意：考試開始鈴(鐘)響前，不可以翻閱試題本


114 學 年 度 科 技 校 院 二 年 制
  統 一 入 學 測 驗 試 題 本

     共同科目

      英 文



          【注 意 事 項】





                                                                                                 ˉ   1.請核對考試科目與報考群(類)別是否相符。
   2.請檢查答案卡(卷)、座位及准考證三者之號碼是否完全相同，如有不



                                                                    ˉ   符，請監試人員查明處理。
   3.本試題本共50 題，每題2 分，共100 分，答對給分，答錯不倒扣。試



                                                                                              ˉ   題本最後一題後面有備註【以下空白】。
   4.本試題本均為單一選擇題，每題都有 (A)、(B)、(C)、(D) 四個選項，
    請選一個最適當答案，在答案卡(卷)同一題號對應方格內，用 2B 鉛筆



                                                                    ˉ   塗滿方格，但不超出格外。



                                                                                                      ˉ   5.有關數值計算的題目，以最接近的答案為準。



                                                                                              ˉ   6.本試題本空白處或背面，可做草稿使用。
   7.請在試題本首頁准考證號碼之方格內，填上自己的准考證號碼及姓



                                                                                                                      ˉ    名，考完後將「答案卡(卷)」及「試題本」一併繳回。

 准考證號碼：□□□□□□□□  姓名：＿＿＿＿＿＿＿
 考試開始鈴(鐘)響時，請先填寫准考證號碼及姓名，再翻閱試題本作答。





                                                        - 1-
第2 頁                                                                                114 年二技
共12 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

Ⅰ. 字彙測驗：共有15 題，請選擇一個最適合的答案，以完成該句。

 1. People discussed food safety as the main             of concern after news reports on unsafe hot
     chili pepper powder.
    (A) command         (B) freedom           (C) subject           (D) village
ˉ
 2. In order to maintain a positive brand image, a business should take negative comments seriously,
    not treat them as                     .
    (A) candy apples      (B) dark horses        (C) night owls        (D) sour grapes
ˉ
 3. Liam was happy to see his child’s display of                     , learning to ride a bike without training
    wheels.
    (A) alphabet          (B) bravery           (C) element           (D) summary
ˉ
 4. One of the missions for the                 is to act as a go-between for the two countries involved
    in the conflict.
    (A) ambassador       (B) geography         (C) ownership        (D) porcelain
ˉ
 5. After the global pandemic, the             business in many countries grew popular again and
   made profits from travelers.
    (A) chimney          (B) mystery           (C) stadium           (D) tourism
ˉ
 6. The warning system, through mobile phone messages,             people to prepare for the
    strong typhoon and helped reduce damage.
    (A) enabled           (B) imported          (C) splashed          (D) tightened
ˉ
 7. The parents will have to              the trip because their child is seriously ill and needs to be
    cared for.
    (A) broadcast         (B) multiply           (C) postpone          (D) whisper
ˉ
 8. Pollution can              the quality of soil and water, thus making it difficult for farmers to
   grow healthy food.
    (A) compete          (B) destroy            (C) harvest           (D) steam
ˉ
 9. The sudden increase in cyberattacks has created a significant              to national security and
    personal privacy.
    (A) collar             (B) colony            (C) thread            (D) threat
ˉ
10. The invention of the silicon chip was a              in the history of the computer. It has greatly
    changed our lives for the better.
    (A) landmark          (B) ministry           (C) sacrifice          (D) telegraph
ˉ
11. The government must find a way to              the problems caused by increasing traffic jams
    in the city.
    (A) recycle            (B) resemble          (C) resolve           (D) revenge
ˉ
12. Jason prefers to           chop garlic so as to add a strong flavor to his Taiwanese beef noodle
    soup.
    (A) abstractly         (B) coarsely           (C) enormously       (D) spiritually
ˉ
13. Despite his impressive achievements at work, Tony remained modest and never            about
    his success.
    (A) boasted           (B) kneeled           (C) reformed          (D) wakened
ˉ



- 2-
114 年二技                                              第3 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 12 頁   公告試題僅供參考

14. More and more young adults have been suffering from mental illnesses such as anxiety and
               over the past few years.
    (A) admiration        (B) depression         (C) evaluation        (D) profession
ˉ
15. The nationwide trade fair held each year has become a source of              for college students
    to explore new ideas.
    (A) acquaintance      (B) graduation         (C) inspiration        (D) resistance



II. 對話測驗：共有10 題，為第16 − 25 題，請依對話內容，選出一個最適合的
      答案，使其成為有意義的對話。

16. Custom officer:  Hello, madam. Could I please see your passport and arrival card?
    Traveler:        Sure. There you are. I’ve completed the card online.
   Custom officer:  ____________ Are you here for business or vacation?
    Traveler:       I’m here to visit my customers.
    (A) How’s your vacation going?
    (B) How’ve you studied English?
    (C) What brings you here this time?
    (D) What can you do with a business degree?
ˉ
17. Jessica:   I’ve been getting into baking recently, especially making cookies.
    Steven:   That’s great! ____________
    Jessica:   I tried to stick to the methods my grandma taught me, but I think the cookies I made
            were a bit too sweet.
    Steven:   That’s a great way to honor your grandma’s tradition! For adjusting the sweetness,
                  I suggest you use a scale to measure sugar levels.
    (A) Do you think the cakes you made are very sweet?
    (B) Can you bring the cakes you made for me to try?
    (C) Can your grandma teach me how to make cookies too?
    (D) Do you need to follow a recipe exactly when making them?
ˉ
18. Asher:  Lately, I’ve been learning to play chess during my breaks.
    David:  I’ve always thought chess is complicated. How are you finding it?
    Asher:   It’s tough but rewarding. The more you play, the more you improve.
    David:  Maybe you could teach me sometime. ____________
    (A) I’ve always wanted to learn.
    (B) I think I’m second to none now.
    (C) I’m not interested in chess at all.
    (D) I’m already very familiar with chess.
ˉ
19. Olivia:   I feel like I’m stressed out. Do you have any tips on preparing for exams?
    Lucas:  For me, I break the study material into smaller sections.
    Olivia:  ____________
    Lucas:   Absolutely! It makes your material manageable and helps you stay focused.
    (A) How did you manage your study time?
    (B) What can you do to manage your study time?
    (C) Does it really help to manage my study material?
    (D) Is it difficult to break down all my study material?
ˉ


                                                        - 3-
第4 頁                                                                                114 年二技
共12 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

20. Kitty:  I’m really surprised there were not many people at this fantastic restaurant.
    Jenny:  I’m not particularly surprised because ____________ I haven’t been there personally
            though.
    Kitty:   Well, I don’t care what the reviews say — I love their spicy dishes very much. How about
         we go there for dinner tomorrow after our tiring day at work? I’d love for you to try it!
    Jenny:  Sounds like a good idea. I guess the same foods taste pleasant to some people and horrible
             to others.
    (A) they know how to meet customer preferences.
    (B) it has got some negative feedback on the Internet.
    (C) they serve some budget and tasty meals every day.
    (D) its location is a few-minute walk from the city center.
ˉ
21. Dave:  Look! So many people are doing exercises on the sports field. You can see activities like
            running, jogging, group dance, and workout training here.
    Leo:   Yeah, that’s why I’m here for jogging. You know, I’ve lost two kilograms in just one month.
    Dave:  That’s amazing! I don’t really need to lose weight, but I know exercise helps relieve stress.
           This is exactly what I need right now.
    Leo:   ____________ We can be workout buddies and support each other for our different goals.
    (A) That’s really good to hear.
    (B) That’s a whole other story.
    (C) That’s a bit out of left field.
    (D) That’s easier said than done.
ˉ
22. Peter:  Have you heard about the Penghu Fireworks Festival this year?
   Mary:  Yes, I have. I can’t wait to watch the amazing fireworks lighting up the sky.
    Peter:   I heard they have some new designs for the show.
   Mary:  ____________ It’ll be great to see how they blend local culture into the fireworks display.
    (A) That’s an amazing auto show.
    (B) That sounds incredibly exciting.
    (C) I don’t want to wait for this year’s fireworks display.
    (D) I’ll wait until the fireworks display takes place next year.
ˉ
23. Cindy: Do you think men and women are treated equally at work?
    John:   ____________ Women often get paid less for the same job.
    Cindy:  What can we do to close the gender pay gap in the workplace?
    John:  We should create a culture of respect and ensure that salary information is open and clear.
    (A) I don’t see it that way.
    (B) This topic is on the way out.
    (C) We won’t stand in your way.
    (D) You have a way with people.
ˉ
24. Mike: Do you think we can completely eliminate plastic waste?
   Tom:  ____________ I believe we can become plastic-free, but finding effective alternatives
            to cope with plastic waste is challenging.
    Mike:  Perhaps we can begin with food and drink industries and encourage them to adopt
            eco-friendly cups.
   Tom:  That could be a positive step forward.
    (A) That’s such a huge topic.
    (B) We’ve gotten so far off topic.
    (C) Let’s shift the topic of conversation.
    (D) That’s the topic we should stop discussion.
ˉ



- 4-
114 年二技                                              第5 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 12 頁   公告試題僅供參考

25. Angel:  Good afternoon, Fashion Outfit. This is Angel speaking. How may I help you?
    Sophie:  Yeah, I bought a blue dress suit at your store a week ago. But I found its color faded
             so quickly after the first wash. I did follow the washing instructions.
    Angel:  I’m very sorry to hear that. However, our refund or exchange policy doesn’t include
              clothes that have been washed or worn.
    Sophie:   I see. ____________ Could you please offer a discount for my next purchase?
    (A) I won’t visit your store again.
    (B) I won’t be able to return it then.
    (C) The outfits don’t suit my dress code.
    (D) Your clothes don’t have washing labels.



III. 綜合測驗：下面三篇短文共有12 個空格，為第26 − 37 題，請依各篇短文
       文意，選出一個最適合該空格的答案。

▲ 閱讀下文，回答第26 − 29 題

      Many of us may have the feeling of laziness after a big meal, and we feel like relaxing on
    the couch, taking a nap, or having a rest. But researchers found that a simple habit, like  26   after
     eating, can actually bring us health benefits. For example, research shows that walking after meals
    can improve digestion. It helps the stomach work better, which  27   digestion and makes food
   move through the digestive system faster. This can especially be helpful for people with irritable
    bowel syndrome ( 腸道激躁症 ).   28    , research reveals that taking a short walk after eating
    can also help maintain blood sugar levels stable. People who walk after meals keep their blood
    sugar levels steady   29   those who stay sitting. It is best to walk soon after eating because
    blood sugar levels usually increase dramatically about an hour after a meal.

ˉ
26. (A) taking a short nap                        (B) having a good bath
    (C) relaxing on the couch                    (D) going for a short walk
ˉ
27. (A) calls off           (B) leaves out         (C) speeds up         (D) turns down
ˉ
28. (A) At first            (B) In addition        (C) Consequently      (D) Nevertheless
ˉ
29. (A) compared with     (B) resulted from      (C) produced by       (D) suited for





                                                        - 5-
第6 頁                                                                                114 年二技
共12 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

▲ 閱讀下文，回答第30 − 33 題

         In 1935 the British produced a number of radio-controlled aircraft for target practice and
     training. It is thought that the term “drone” ( 無人機 ) started to be used at this time,   30   the
   name of the DH.82B Queen Bee, an early radio-controlled target aircraft. Drones now   31    ,
    ranging from monitoring climate change to carrying out search and rescue tasks, photography,
    filming, and goods delivery.  32   the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the United States has significantly
    increased its use of drones. They are mostly used for the careful watching of areas where troops
    cannot safely reach. However, they are also used as weapons for killing people who are
    considered   33    . Their use in current conflicts and over some countries has raised questions
    regarding whether it is morally right to use drones as weapons, especially when it could result in
    the killing of innocent people.

ˉ
30. (A) inspiring for       (B) to inspire          (C) inspired by        (D) who inspired
ˉ
31. (A) use two forms of energy                  (B) are poorly equipped
    (C) carry on-board crew                     (D) have many functions
ˉ
32. (A) Before            (B) Since             (C) During           (D) Upon
ˉ
33. (A) free and equal                           (B) safe and sound
    (C) grateful and humbled                    (D) armed and dangerous



▲ 閱讀下文，回答第34 − 37 題

       Lukang ( 鹿港 ), one of Taiwan’s earliest Han Chinese settlements, offers a great walking
    tour through its historic streets. The streets are filled with ancient temples and   34    . Visitors
    can start their tour at the Taisugar railway station, which is well  35    . From there, they can follow
    a 3.5-kilometer path to see important places like Lukang Longshan Temple. Built in 1786, this
    temple features beautiful architecture and a peaceful garden, making it a  36    . As you wander
    through the narrow alleys, you will find the Lukang Folk Arts Museum, which shows colonial
    buildings and the area’s rich culture. The tour ends at the busy Lukang Mazu Temple, where
    people gather to   37   and celebrate. Along the way, you can enjoy local foods like meatball
    dumplings from the food stalls. Whether you explore by yourself or take a guided tour, Lukang
     offers a fun experience for everyone.

ˉ
34. (A) thoughtfully written novels               (B) brightly shining diamond rings
    (C) beautifully restored buildings             (D) swiftly flowing mountain streams
ˉ
35. (A) preserve          (B) preserves          (C) preserving        (D) preserved
ˉ
36. (A) good space to cook                      (B) nice spot to relax
    (C) great sports arena                       (D) major business location
ˉ
37. (A) pray              (B) slip               (C) endure            (D) develop
ˉ





- 6-
114 年二技                                              第7 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 12 頁   公告試題僅供參考

IV. 閱讀測驗：下面四篇短文共有13 題，為第38 − 50 題，請閱讀短文後，選出
       最適當的答案。

▲ 根據以下圖表，回答第38 − 40 題


ˉ
         School can be a source of stress for high school students. This bar chart shows the
     perceptions of 15-year-olds from five countries regarding the statement “My teachers expect too
   much of me at school.” Answer the questions based on the chart below.


            "My Teachers Expect Too Much of Me At School."


               70

               60                         agree
               50                                 students    40
        of                                         strongly
               30
          or
                         agree  20               10                                         Percentage
               who   0
                         Israel      Wales     USA     Germany   Canada

                                    Female   Male



ˉ
38. Which of the countries has more than half of its high school students who agree that their teachers
    expect too much from them?
    (A) Canada.           (B) Wales.            (C) Germany.         (D) Israel.
ˉ
39. Which of the statements is true about high school students’ perceptions of their teachers’
    expectations?
    (A) Less than one-fifth of female students in the USA agree with their teachers’ high expectations.
    (B) An equal percentage of male and female students in Wales agree with the target statement.
    (C) In comparison with male students, a higher percentage of female students agree with the target
        statement.
    (D) The difference in the perceptions of teachers’ expectations between Canadian male and female
        students is the smallest.
ˉ
40. Which of the following statements can be inferred from the chart?
    (A) High school students in Germany experience a lot of stress solely because of their teachers’
        expectations.
    (B) American male and female students differ greatly in their views on teachers’ expectations and
         stress levels.
    (C) Overall, male high school students experience less stress from their teachers’ expectations than
       female students.
    (D) High school students in Canada have the lowest teachers’ expectations and stress levels compared
        with those in other countries.


                                                        - 7-
第8 頁                                                                                114 年二技
共12 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

▲ 根據以下圖表，回答第41 − 43 題


ˉ
       More and more employment opportunities are exposed to AI around the world ( i.e., exposure
  關連性 ). As many studies have predicted, it is very likely that jobs will be replaced by AI.
    However, in many cases AI actually makes our work better and more productive  ( i.e.,
    complementarity 互補性 ). Answer the questions based on the chart below.


         100%


         80%


                                                             Low exposure         60%

                                                                        High exposure, low
         40%                                                         complementarity
                                                                        High exposure, high
                                                                          complementarity
         20%


         0%
                   World     Advanced    Emerging   Low-income
                                 economies     markets      countries



ˉ
41. Which of the following is the most likely title for the chart?
    (A) AI’s Impact on Productivity and Wages Relationship
    (B) AI’s Impact on Automation and Information Technology
    (C) Employment Shares by AI Exposure and Complementarity
    (D) Employment Locations for High- and Low-Exposure to AI
ˉ
42. According to the chart, which of the following statements is true?
    (A) AI exposure in low-income countries is expected to be 40 percent.
    (B) About 80 percent of employment is not exposed to AI in emerging markets.
    (C) The percentages of AI exposure and complementarity are equal worldwide.
    (D) In advanced economies, nearly 60 percent of jobs are highly exposed to AI.
ˉ
43. Which of the following statements can be inferred from the chart?
    (A) Advanced economies can benefit from AI for work productivity.
    (B) Low-income countries tend to be better equipped for AI adoption.
    (C) Emerging markets and low-income countries face zero risk from AI.
    (D) The potential impact of AI on the global labor market has been very fast.





- 8-
114 年二技                                              第9 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 12 頁   公告試題僅供參考

▲ 閱讀下文，回答第44 − 46 題


ˉ
       What you drink has a significant impact on your blood vessels and overall health. The poorer
    the condition of your blood vessels, the higher your risk for stroke. Recent studies have provided
   new insights into how different drinks affect blood vessel health and how we choose healthy
     drinks.
       One study examined the effects of drinking soft drinks and fruit juices on stroke risk.
    Researchers found that consuming just one soft drink per day was associated with a 22% increase
     in overall stroke risk. Interestingly, this study found that drinking one processed fruit juice daily
   was linked to an even higher increased risk of 37%. The study also noted that while fruit juices
    can contain nutrients good for blood vessels, many of them also have added sweeteners and
    preservatives that can cause the fruit juices to lose their positive effects. Nevertheless, drinking
    seven or more glasses of water daily was linked to a reduced risk of stroke, showing that water is
    a healthier choice than sugary drinks such as soft drinks and fruit juices.
        Another study investigated the impact of coffee and tea consumption on stroke risk. Results
    of the study showed that drinking more than four cups of coffee daily was associated with a 37%
    increase in stroke risk, although moderate coffee intake did not appear to raise this risk. In
     contrast, drinking more than four cups of tea daily was linked to an average 19% decrease in
    stroke risk. Black and green tea were found to be particularly helpful, associated with a 29% and
   27% reduction in stroke risk, respectively.

ˉ
44. Which of the following is the best title for this passage?
    (A) The Treatment for a Stroke
    (B) The Nutrients in Fruit Juices
    (C) Drinks for Your Blood Vessels
    (D) Drinking Tea for Your Heart Health
ˉ
45. According to the passage, which of the following drinks is considered most useful for health?
    (A) Water and tea.
    (B) Fruit juice and water.
    (C) Coffee and soft drink.
    (D) Soft drink and fruit juice.
ˉ
46. According to the passage, which of the following statements is NOT true?
    (A) Drinking black and green tea daily is especially helpful in reducing stroke risk.
    (B) Drinking more than four cups of coffee daily has positive effects on blood vessels.
    (C) Drinking one processed fruit juice daily has a higher stroke risk than one soft drink.
    (D) Drinking more than seven glasses of water daily can be effective for stroke prevention.





                                                        - 9-
第10 頁                                                                               114 年二技
共12 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考

▲ 閱讀下文，回答第47 − 50 題


ˉ
        Taiwan has introduced new regulations to stop live shows featuring wild animals like
    dolphins, tigers, and other wild mammals. The Ministry of Agriculture ( MOA ) announced these
    changes in July 2024, banning the use of wild animals for entertainment or close interactions with
     visitors. The new laws came after a 2022 case involving Leofoo Village Theme Park, where
     visitors were allowed to feed lions and tigers, raising animal safety concerns. Animal rights
    groups support the new regulations but believe more clarity is needed, especially for marine
   mammals. Under the new rules, businesses that keep wild animals must show how they care for
    and display the wild animals.
        Taiwan joins 13 other countries, including Switzerland, Hungary, Costa Rica, and India, that
    have banned captive animal performances. In Canada and France, laws strictly ban dolphin and
    whale shows. Additionally, all 30 places in the United Kingdom that kept dolphins and whales
    had closed by 1993. South Korea has stopped tourists from interacting with dolphins, but they
      still hold dolphin performances. However, places like Farglory Ocean Park in Hualien and Yehliu
   Ocean World in New Taipei still host dolphin shows. Although their permits for holding wild
    animal shows will expire in 2026, it is uncertain if the ocean park companies will apply for a new
    permit. In the future, zoos and aquariums in Taiwan that wish to continue their shows of wild
    animals must meet three  criteria: shows must reflect the animals’ natural behavior, have
    educational values, and promote an emotional connection with the audience. Facilities that do not
    follow these rules risk losing their permits under Taiwan’s Animal Protection Act.

ˉ
47. Which of the changes did Taiwan’s MOA make about wild animals in July 2024?
    (A) It allowed more zoos to keep wild animals.
    (B) It began allowing visitors to feed wild animals.
    (C) It encouraged wild animal interactions with people.
    (D) It banned live performances involving wild animals.
ˉ
48. What might happen to zoos or aquariums in Taiwan that do not follow the new regulations?
    (A) They might lose their permits.
    (B) They might close down forever.
    (C) They might reduce ticket prices.
    (D) They might release all their animals.
ˉ
49. Which of the following countries will continue to hold dolphin performances until at least 2025?
    (A) Canada.           (B) Taiwan.           (C) Switzerland.       (D) United Kingdom.
ˉ
50. Which of the following is NOT a condition for keeping wild animal shows under the new laws?
    (A) Offering educational insights.
    (B) Displaying animals’ natural behaviors.
    (C) Promoting interactions between animals.
    (D) Fostering an emotional bond with people.
ˉ




          【以下空白】




- 10-
114 年二技                                                     第11 頁
英文 共同科目                                      共 12 頁   公告試題僅供參考





                                                       - 11-
第12 頁                                                                               114 年二技
共12 頁                                      英文 共同科目   公告試題僅供參考





- 12-